The presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the just concluded presidential and National Assembly election, Peter Obi has said he won Saturday’s election and would explore all legal action to reclaim it. The former Anambra State Governor said the presidential election which was won by the All Progressives Congress candidate, Bola Tinubu, was controversial and programmed to deliver pre-determined results. New Telegraph had on Wednesday reported that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was declared the president-elect after he polled 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and Peter Obi of the Labour Party. Addressing a world press conference in Abuja on Thursday, Obi said the election did not meet the necessary requirements and could not be adjudged credible. Obi, who boasted about his confidence in the judiciary, citing his experience as governor, insisted he would prove to the court how he won the election, even as he accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of tampering with existing data of voters. He insisted that Nigerians were robbed of their true choice, adding that he would pursue justice through court and was ready to challenge the results till he prove his argument. “We will explore all legal and peaceful options to reclaim our mandate. We won the election and we will prove it to Nigerians,” Obi said at a press conference on Thursday in Abuja. “I am challenging the process,” Obi declared to a room full of journalists in Nigeria’s capital city, his first media appearance after the declaration of a winner by the electoral umpire. “This is very unfair. It is the least expected of Nigeria,” he said.  The Labour Party (LP) has expressed its intention to challenge the results of Saturday’s presidential poll won by Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in court. Addressing a news conference in Abuja yesterday, its vice presidential candidate, Yusuf Datti Baba- Ahmed, who insisted that Peter Obi won the… In "News" The Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has won the election at the former governor Ayodele Fayose polling unit in Afao-Ekiti, Irepodun/Ifelodun local government area of Ekiti State Tinubu garnered 154 votes in St. David Pry School, Afao Ekiti, Unit 001 while the People’s Democratic… In "2023 Elections" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Nasarawa State has said that the presidential candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar; that of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi; and Rabi'u Musa Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), put together cannot be of any threat to the… In "News"