The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) yesterday charged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to clamp down on illicit funds flow transactions by corrupt politicians in cahoots with the commercial banks and vote buying in the country, considering the forthcoming gubernatorial elections. This is sequel to the Supreme Court’s judgement, which ordered that the old N1000, N500 and N200 should continue to be legal tender till December 31. HEDA’s Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, in a press statement by the anti-corruption group, maintained that the circulation of old Naira notes as legal tender would create loopholes in the fight against corruption and insurgency in the country it was proposed to achieve. He said: “With the Supreme Court judgment delivered that the old notes continue to be legal tender, the Central Bank and other financial institutions must swing into action and deploy some measures to track and counteract illicit money flow transactions by corrupt politicians and their allies. “Improved scrutiny should be intensified by the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit and the EFCC to track bank officials, estate managers and Bureau de Changes for suspicious movement of toxic funds within and outside the financial institutions.” He alleged that vote-buying might be on the high side with the availability of old Naira notes against what was experienced during the Presidential elections, adding that the EFCC must sustain its commendable efforts on the curb of vote-buying tactics by politicians to disrupt the integrity of the electoral process. He said: “Similarly, the antigraft agency and other law enforcement agencies should also intensify their efforts against vote-buying ahead and during the gubernatorial elections on March 11.”  An advocacy group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre), yesterday said to address the huge illicit financial flow from Nigeria, there is need for collaboration between the country where the money is stolen from and the country where it is invested without which it will be difficult to… In "News" The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) Resource Centre, has put a figure to illicit financial flow in Nigeria. The chairman of HEDA, Olarenwaju Suraju said the country loses about N15 billion annually. Speaking at a ‘One-day workshop on Illicit Financial Flow, Gas Flaring and COP 26’ organized by HEDA,… In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has accused financial institutions, accountants and other professionals of aiding illicit flows of the nation's resources out of the country. Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, made the claim Wednesday in Abuja, while receiving a report on illicit financial flows from a… In "News"