  Seven-time champions Nigeria on Wednesday commenced training sessions for their third-place match against Tunisia at the Africa U20 Cup of Nations ongoing in Egypt. A lone goal defeat to The Gambia’s Young Scorpions in the tournament’s second semi-final in Cairo on Monday condemned the Flying Eagles to the classification match, in which they come up against Tunisia, who crumbled 3-0 to the sterling Senegalese in the first semi-final in Cairo the same day. Friday’s clash at the Cairo International Stadium will kick off at 4pm Egypt time (3pm Nigeria time). Ladan Bosso’s wards resumed training on Wednesday evening at the 30 June Stadium training pitch in preparations for the tie against the Tunisians. The training session lasted for 90 minutes with Bosso and his assistants in charge. It was the first training session of the Flying Eagles since the team lost 1-0 to The Gambia on Monday. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has appointed Mohamed Athoumani from The Comoros Islands as referee for the third-place match, alongside Fanta Idriss Kone from Mali (assistant referee 1), Soukaina Hamdi (assistant referee 2) and Lamin Jammeh from The Gambia (fourth official). Bouhtane Said from The Comoros will serve as Match Commissioner with Imade El Fahouss from Morocco in the role of General Coordinator.  Nigeria’s U20 team, the Flying Eagles, failed to reach the 17th Africa U20 Cup of Nations Final after losing by the odd goal to The Gambia’s Young Lions in the second semi-final played at the Cairo International Stadium on Monday evening. Lanky forward Adama Bojang capitalized on a defensive… In "Sports" Nigeria’s U20 team, the Flying Eagles, failed to reach the 17th Africa U20 Cup of Nations Final after losing by the odd goal to The Gambia’s Young Lions in the second semifinal played at the Cairo International Stadium on Monday evening. Lanky forward Adama Bojang capitalized on a defensive slip… In "Sports" Seven-time champions Nigeria will square up to host nation Egypt, Senegal and Mozambique in the group stage of the 2023 Africa U20 Cup of Nations finals scheduled for Egypt from February 19 to March 11. The four teams are in Group A. The draw held in… In "Sports"