Following the electoral victory of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the President-elect, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and his Labour Party (LP) counterpart, Peter Obi have said they will seek redress in court. The duo threatened to head to court after the declaration of Tinubu by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as president-elect on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Reacting to the development in a terse statement issued on Wednesday evening, the PDP described Tinubu’s victory as “a grave injustice which will not stand.” The spokesman and Director of Public Affairs of the PDP Presidential Campaign Committee, Senator Dino Melaye said there will be no going back on the battle to retrieve the mandate which he called a “stolen one.” He said: “A clarion call on all Atiku’s supporters all over the world not to be perturbed. Weeping may tarry till night but joy cometh in the morning. “This grave injustice shall not stand. The battle to retrieve our stolen mandate is a battle of no retreat, no surrender. We shall overcome,” he said. Correspondingly, the LP also vowed to contest defeat, “We’ll contest defeat through legal means  – Obi The former Governor of Anambra State has said he would contest Tinubu’s victory through legal and peaceful means. Speaking at a press conference addressed by his running mate, Senator Datti Baba-Ahmed in Abuja, he said, be assured of our determination to fight the injustice that has been perpetrated on Nigerians through all legal and peaceful means “On behalf of our presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, I address you all and indeed all Nigerians on the current situation in the country following the announcement of the purported result of the presidential election held on Saturday, February 25th 2023. “Please be assured of our determination to fight the injustice that has been perpetrated on Nigerians through all legal and peaceful means. It is our position that the purported result did not meet the minimum criteria of a transparent, free and fair election,” Baba-Ahmed said. He, however, thanked all Nigerians for their belief in them and for coming out en masse to vote for the Labour Party and for the cause they believed in, which he said was the birth of a new Nigeria.  Finally, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) emerged as the president-elect having defeated Atiku Abubakar of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and 14 others. New Telegraph had earlier reported that… In "2023 Elections" …says Tinubu'll lead Nigeria to a new level of prosperity Ekiti State Governor, Mr Biodun Oyebanji has congratulated the President-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu over his election as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had… In "2023 Elections" Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has described the victory of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the emergence of a true Democrat. Ganduje stated this while reacting to INEC's declaration of Tinubu as the winner of the 2023 Presidential election, defeating his closest… In "2023 Elections"