The Chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Cornelius Ojelabi, has congratulated the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his well-deserved victory in the recently held presidential elections. Ojelabi in a statement signed by the state Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, acknowledged the wide support for Asiwaju across the board despite the keen nature of the contest. He expressed his appreciation to all the leaders, members and sympathizers of APC for their diligence, perseverance, commitment, vigilance, and sacrifice in the days preceding the election, during and thereafter. Ojelabi appreciated all Nigerians who despite the excruciating challenges of recent times performed their responsibilities to further entrench our democracy. He said, “The electoral body, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the security agencies and other stakeholders will go down in history as midwives to a free, fair, transparent and historic election in Nigeria. “The role of the opposition parties who made a keen contest of the election by providing options for the electorates was significant of tremendous growth in our nascent democracy.” Ojelabi assured that the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will fulfil his part of the social contract with all Nigerians by delivering in totality on his manifesto of RENEWED HOPE to usher in an era of peace, security, prosperity, nationwide growth and our restoration to a place of pride in the comity of nations. “Nigerians have chosen a prepared president whose selling point remains his antecedent, pedigree and unwavering commitment to progressive governance.”  WALE ELEGBEDE reports that it is a new beginning for the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which recently held a seamless state congress to elect a 36- man executive led by Hon. Cornelius Ojelabi If the pre-congress conversations around the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos… In "Politics" Regardless of apprehension, the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), last weekend, held a carnival-like, seamless state congress to elect a 36-man executive council at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan. WALE ELEGBEDE reports If the pre-congress conversations around the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State are… In "Politics" The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has flagged off its campaign for the forthcoming elections in the Lagos West II Senatorial District. The party used the occasion of the flag-off to receive into its fold members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Action Alliance… In "Politics"