As Nigeria joins the global community to mark the 2023 International Women’s Day (IWD), UNICEF has raised the alarm over the high number of adolescent girls and women aged 15-49 years undernourished, saying their data has soared from 5.6 million since 2018 to 7.3 million in 2021 in Nigeria, which is among the 12 hardest hit countries by the global food and nutrition crisis. These are the highlights of a new global report released by UNICEF today. The 12 countries impacted by the global food and nutrition crisis including Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Yemen – represent the epicentre of a global nutrition crisis that has been increased by recent impacts of COVID-19 and exacerbated by the war in Ukraine and ongoing drought, conflict, and instability in some countries. ‘Undernourished and Overlooked: A Global Nutrition Crisis in Adolescent Girls and Women’ – issued ahead of IWD– warns that the ongoing crises, aggravated by unending gender inequality, are deepening a nutrition crisis among adolescent girls and women that had already shown little improvement in the last two decades. The IWD marked globally on March 8 is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women.  As the world marked the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD), Save the Children International (SCI) Nigeria has called on the three tiers of government to empower tomorrow’s women by promoting and protecting their rights to quality education as well as ensure their healthy start in life. In a statement to… In "News" An estimated 10.4 million children in seven countries, including Nigeria, will suffer from acute malnutrition in 2021, the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) said in a statement yesterday. “As 2021 approaches, UNICEF is deeply concerned for the health and wellbeing of 10.4 million children projected to suffer from acute malnutrition next… In "News" Not less than 18.3million children are out of school in Nigeria while millions of others are getting substandard education, the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) has disclosed. Executive Director Catherine Russell disclosed this ahead of World Children’s Day. She said discrimination against children based on ethnicity, language, and religion is… In "News"