 A pall of darkness has fallen on the fast depleting class of Nigeria’s former international footballers as Ismaila Mabo is reported dead this Monday morning. Ismaila Mabo, who featured for the Mighty Jets of Jos when the club was at its peak in the 1960s and 1970s, was reported by Nigerian newspaper, Blueprint to have died in the early hours of Monday morning. He had been ill for sometime before passing on at age 80. He was among the jinx-breaking Nigerian school boys who beat Ghana for the first time in Accra. In the then annual Dowuona-Hammond Cup donated by the Ghana’s Minister of Education for contests between the Nigeria-Academicals and their Ghanaian counterparts, Nigeria beat Ghana 1-0 in Accra on February 13, 1966. It was a milestone as it was the first time any Nigerian team had beaten Ghana on home soil. Ismaila Mabo was the central defender of the Nigerian team that followed up on 19 February 1966 with 2-1 win Lagos to complete a double over Ghana first time. The feat opened the national team doors for most of the school boys. Among whom were Tony Igwe, Peter Anieke, Sam Garba Okoye, Eyo Essien among others. Mabo later coached the Nigerian women’s team, the Super Falcons to their best ever outing at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in 1999 where they reached the quarter-finals.   Former Super Falcons coach Ismaila Mabo has insisted the country has enough qualified coaches who can successfully handle the national senior women team. The position of the Super Eagles coach has been vacant since former handler Thomas Dennerby quits last year and Mabo has now advised the Nigeria Football Federation… In "Sports" The recently-concluded Aisha Buhari Championship was good preparation for future tournaments. Ghana, Cameroon, South Africa, Mali and Morocco are other teams that took part in the tournament. Incidentally, the competition exposed the Super Falcons in many ways. Nigeria defeated Mali 2-0 in the opener but the goals came late in… In "Editorial" Talents are all over the nooks and crannies of the country in various aspects of sports disciplines. The athletes are scattered in schools and grassroots but the administrators and coaches tend to favour a ‘quick fix’ rather than developmental approach in getting results. A former Eagles coach and FIFA Instructor,… In "Sports"