The Supreme Court yesterday affirmed Rufai Hanga as the Senator-elect for Kano Central Senatorial District of Kano State under the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The apex court, however, kicked out a former Kano State governor and former Minister of Education, Ibrahim Shekarau, as the candidate of the NNPP in the February 25, National Assembly election. Delivering judgement in an appeal brought before it by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the court upheld the judgements of a Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal both in Abuja, which had earlier upheld the candidature of Hanga, as the Senatorial candidate of the party. In the judgement prepared by Justice Uwani Musa Aba-Aji but delivered by Justice Emmanuel Akomaye Agim, the Supreme Court held that INEC’s appeal lacked merit and substance and thereafter dismissed it in its entirety. The Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal had in their previous judgements upheld Hanga as the Senatorial Candidate of the NNPP for Kano Central following the withdrawal of Ibrahim Shekarau as a member of the party and Senatorial Candidate due to irreconcilable differences he had with the party leadership. However, rather than obey the Federal High Court order, INEC took it upon itself and appealed the judgement at the end of which it lost at the Appellate Court. Not satisfied with the judgements of the Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal, the electoral umpire proceeded to the Supreme Court to challenge the concurrent findings of the two courts, which upheld Hanga as the lawful candidate of the NNPP Kano Central Senatorial District. The apex court in the final verdict, resolved the two formulated issues against ONE and disagreed with it completely in its arguments  The Supreme Court on Friday sacked Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, the senator-elect on the platform of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) and recognised Senator Rufa’i Hanga as the party’s authentic candidate for the 2023 general election. New Telegraph had reported that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Shekarau the winner… In "News" The Court of Appeal, Kano Division, has discharged former governor of Kano State, Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau, over alleged conspiracy and receiving the sum of N25 million without passing any through any financial institution and taking custody and control of N950 million.   The money, alleged to have been unlawfully obtained… In "News" Muhammad Kabir Kano Kano State known for its political sagacity and mature politics, use of tactics as instruments to winning elective offices, has seen various faces of thuggery, hooliganism and even vandalism which overtime seemed to have been taken care off. However, recent happenings in the political circle in the… In "Politics"