 She stole the show — at least for the guests behind her. Oscar nominee Tems has been slammed on social media after her elaborate outfit blocked the view of fellow attendees at Sunday night’s Academy Awards. The Nigerian songstress — who is nominated for Best Original Song for the “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” track “Lift Me Up” — wore a puffy white gown that wrapped around the back of her head. And while she stunned on the red carpet, the incredible outfit was probably less loved by those sitting inside the Dolby Theater. Photos of the “Crazy Tings” hitmaker standing out in the crowd quickly went viral on Twitter, clocking up hundreds of thousands of views. “Imagine waiting your whole life to be at the Oscars and you end up sitting behind a stratus cloud,” one sniped, comparing the garment to a mass of condensed water vapor. The critic accompanied their snarky tweet with a screenshot that showed a guest craning his neck around Tems’ puffy garment in order to see the stage. Others also accused the star of being “rude” by blocking the view of other attendees. “I guess the people behind the white veil don’t get to see the show,” one declared. “Who has to sit behind that woman with the white veil,” another asked. “Rude.” *Courtesy: New York Post  Popular Nigerian singer, Temilade Openiyi, aka Tems, has been nominated for the 95th edition of the Oscars award, scheduled to hold on March 12 2023. This was announced in the 2023 nomination list released by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ Twitter handle on Tuesday. Tems was nominated… In "Arts & Entertainments" Gammy award-winning singers, Burna Boy and Tems alongside Afro-rave sensation, Rema, are to headline the NBA All - Star Game 2023 halftime show. The Afrobeats-themed game will see Nigerian’s global super stars perform in Utah, United States of America, tomorrow. This is coming off the back of Pheelz's recent performance… In "Arts & Entertainments" Nigerian singer, Temilade Openiyi, known professionally as Tems won the ‘Best Melodic Rap Performance’ category on Sunday night for her role in ‘Wait for U’, the 2022 hit song by Future, featuring Drake. Tems is the first female Nigerian artiste to win a Grammy award. Tems rose to… In "Arts & Entertainments"