The presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, led party leaders and governors to the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to protest the outcome of the February 25 presidential election. Among party leaders present were the National Chairman, Prof. Iyorchia Ayu and other members of the National Working Committee, Chairman of the Board of Trustees (BoT) Senator Adolphus Wabara, Director General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Governor Aminu Waziri Tambwal and Governor Ahmed Finitiri. The protesters marched from Legacy House, PDP presidential campaign office, through British High Commission, Abuja the National University Commission (NUC) to the Maitama office of the electoral umpire. There was a heavy presence of security personnel, but the protest was largely peaceful. They are expected to present a petition to INEC against the conduct of the election.   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) plans to hold protest march against the outcome of the February 25 presidential election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had last Wednesday declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Bola Tinubu, winner of the election. PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who came second,… In "News" The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, met with governors elected on the platform of the party. PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, was part of the meeting, which was the first PDP governors held after the presidential primary. The meeting, which was held… In "News" The People's Democratic Party (PDP) will on Monday March 6, hold a protest march against the outcome of the February 25 presidential election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Wednesday, declared Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the election. PDP, Presidential candidate, Alhaji… In "2023 Elections"