A group, Southern and Middle Belt Alliance (SaMBA), has asked the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to resign if he could not ensure that the Saturday, March 11 state elections would be free, fair and credible. SaMBA also advised the Inspector General of Police, Director General, Department of State Services (DSS) and Election Petition Tribunal members, to resign honourably if they could not defend the integrity of the electoral process. Inastatementby itsspokes- person, PrinceRwangPamJr, the group lamented that the failureof INEC, policeandthe DSS to competently perform their constitutional duties during the February 25 PresidentialandNationalAssembly elections brought internationaldisgracetoNigeria, andalso failedtoprotectthemandateof millions of Nigerians. Part of the statement reads; “Nigerians need commitment that transcends verbal promises. The countless instances of bullying, intimidation of voters and snatching and destruction of electoral materials in various polling units across the country in the presence of security agencies indicates gross incompetence on the part of the Nigeria Police.”  The National Electoral Commissioner for information and Voter Education of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Festus Okoye, has said that the commission is not under any pressure to deliver any political party in the 2023 general election. Speaking on the Channels Television programme, Politics Today, Okoye also said that… In "News" The Abrahamic Mission, an NGO of Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society, has organised a one-day summit ahead of the 2023 general elections. The programme according to the organisers was put together in order to ensure peaceful and credible elections in 2023. It was gathered that the presidential and national assembly elections have… In "Islam" Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir el-Rufai has directed political appointees as well as public servants aspiring for political offices in the 2023 general elections to resign on or before March 31, 2022. The governor’s directive was contained in a circular issued by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Balarabe… In "News"