The gubernatorial candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Kaduna State, Jonathan Asake, yesterday said that his party is not into any alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the purpose of the Saturday, March 11 election, contrary to speculations in the state. This was also as Asake, a former member of the House of Representatives insisted that he has not stepped down for any candidate in the coming elections. Asake said it has become necessary to make the clarification in view of the speculations making the rounds in the state that he had formed an alliance with the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He insisted that he won’t step down for any candidate, noting that the party was fully prepared and determined to win the coming election and formed the next government in the state. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna, the LP governorship candidate urged his supporters to disregard the rumour as there was no iota of truth in it. He also called on eligible voters and his teeming supporters to come out en masse and vote for the Labour Party to form the next government in the state on May 29. The LP standard bearer said: “We are here to address some very important issues that have been flying in the social media that appear to be a rumour, but need to be addressed.  Jonathan Asake is the governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP) in Kaduna State. The former member of the House of Representatives, in this interview with BABA NEGEDU, speaks on his chances in the election and his vision for the state Why did you dump the leadership of Southern Kaduna Peoples… In "Politics" • Zoning a political party issue – ACF   Following the statement credited to the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Abdulahhi Adamu, that the party is yet to zone the presidency, the President of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) Hon. Jonathan Asake, has called on the main… In "News" The outcome of the recent governorship election in Edo State seems to have not only raised the stake ahead of tomorrow’s gubernatorial poll in Ondo State, but has further fuelled the supremacy battle between the ruling and main opposition political parties. FELIX NWANERI reports The supremacy battle between the All… In "Politics"