Former President Goodluck Jonathan has debunked the rumouring making the rounds that he visited the President-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to congratulate him. The speculation went viral after Jonathan was pictured with Tinubu on Tuesday, February 28, in a very cordial position. A source privy to the development said that the widely circulated assumption is being masterminded by political mischief makers bent on spreading false narratives, thus, it should be dismissed as untrue. Jonathan who led other members of the West African Elders Forum (WAEF), including former Ghanaian President, John Mahama, on an election mission to Nigeria, also met with Labour Party’s Peter Obi, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Other members of the delegation were former Beninese President Boni Yayi; former President of Sierra Leone Ernest Bai Koroma; former President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta; former Vice President of The Gambia, Fatoumata Tambajang; former Burkinabe Prime Minister and President of the Economic Community of West African States Kadre Ouedraogo, and former Deputy Chair of the African Union, Dr Erastus Mwencha.   Former President Goodluck Jonathan and other prominent Nigerians, yesterday, rolled out the drums and paid glowing tributes to President Muhammadu Buhari on the occasion of his 78th birthday. In a goodwill message personally signed by Jonathan, the former President wished Buhari God’s blessings as he leads the nation to greater… In "News" The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday night, paid a visit to former President Goodluck Jonathan in Abuja. The meeting, which was held behind closed doors at Jonathan’s residence, was in continuation of the former Lagos State governor's nationwide consultation with critical… In "Top Stories" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the mandate sought by its Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is to consolidate the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. The party said this in a statement from the National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka on Monday to disagree with the opposition Peoples… In "News"