Africa Magic has disclosed plans to debut brand new movies daily in March in what it tagged, March Movie Madness. The audience will enjoy a total of 55 new Nollywood film titles on Africa Magic Urban and Showcase. Of these 55 movies, 25 will premiere on Africa Magic Showcase on different days of the week.  While the remaining 30 films will air on Africa Magic Urban every day as Africa Magic viewers will enjoy up to four movies on some days. Ahead of the ninth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards, the platform is proving why it is regarded as Africa’s greatest storyteller, with the release of these films. Ten of the movies that will air on AM Showcase are commissioned works monitored by Africa Magic and MultiChoice. With this, viewers should expect only the very best in storylines and production quality. 15 others were acquired from brilliant Nollywood producers like Jay Franklyn Jituboh, Agatha Amata, and Biodun Stephen. The mix of themes and genres on this roster of 55 films present something for every film aficionado as there is a mix of genres where everyone gets a good cocktail of everything Zadok they love from horror, thriller, comedy, psychological drama, to romantic comedy.  The Head of Content and West Africa Channels, Dr Busola Tejumola, spoke about the decision to launch the movie marathon and what it means for subscribers. She said, “As a brand, we’ve always been committed to telling true African stories, sharing the complexities of what makes us unique. ‘This roster of 55 movies does just that – telling stories about different facets of us as Africans and our culture. Every single film will open viewers up to a new point of view. We know they have been produced with the best standards, and we believe that viewers will enjoy watching them.”  Africa Magic, the leading provider of entertainment content for Africa by Africans, has announced the launch of a new game show, Come Play Naija. The show premieres Thursday, 3 March 2022 from 9 pm on Africa Magic Showcase, Urban and Family channels, and will be available to customers on DStv… In "Arts & Entertainments" MultiChoice Nigeria has unveiled a lineup of new shows, series and other content offerings coming to its DStv, GOtv and Showmax platforms ahead of the festive season and well into 2022. The content unveil was done at the 2021 MultiChoice Showcase event which took place recently. MultiChoice Executive Head, Content… In "Body & Soul" Edwin Usoboh The brand-new Africa Magic game show, Come Play Naija premieres Thursday night on Africa Magic Showcase, Urban, and Family and will air every Thursday and Friday from 9pm and Saturday from 7pm. 'Come Play Naija' is a game show that will see two teams competing in a collection of… In "Arts & Entertainments"