Taiwo Hassan, with Agency Reports Saudi Arabia has said that the minimum age for performing this year’s Hajj pilgrimage is 12 years as the numbers of pilgrims will return to the pre-pandemic times. The Saudi Ministry of Hajj has also pointed out that priority for registering to undertake this year’s pilgrimage will be given to Muslims who did not do Hajj, one of Islam’s five obligatory duties. Hajj permits can be issued via the electronic platform “Absher” starting from 15-10-1444AH, i.e. less than two months before the Hajj season due in late June this year. The ministry added that only Muslims holding Hajj visas or those with legal residency in Saudi Arabia will be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage rites. The ministry had earlier unveiled four packages for domestic pilgrims wishing to attend the 2023 Hajj with costs ranging from SR,3984 to SR11,841. According to the ministry, details of these packages and transportation fees depend on types of transport means and the pilgrim’s departure city en route to Hajj. Saudi Arabia has said there will be no limits on the numbers of pilgrims from around the world for the upcoming Hajj season, reversing earlier restrictions prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the past two years. In the past two years, Saudi Arabia downsized the numbers of Muslims allowed to perform the Hajj rites to prevent spread of COVID-19. Around 2.5 million Muslims used to attend Hajj annually in the pre-pandemic times.  Nigeria is considering a lot of factors including awaiting a declaration from Saudi Arabia before its decision on participation in 2020 Hajj operations. This came as at least six countries have so far decided not to send pilgrims to this year’s Hajj, the greatest pilgrimage for the Muslims, due to… In "Islam" The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia said yesterday said it would limit the annual Muslim pilgrimage to people already residing inside the kingdom due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. It is the second year in a row that the Hajj – an obligation for Muslims around the world – has been… In "News" Saudi Arabia has said it will allow one million people – from both inside and outside the kingdom – to perform the Hajj this year compared with only a few thousand local pilgrims over the past two years. In increasing the numbers, the kingdom’s Ministry of Hajj and Umrah… In "Faith"