Taiwo Hassan, with Agency •••declares four-day holiday to mark second Founding Day Reports Saudi Arabia declares four-day holiday to mark second Founding Day recently. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is marking its second Founding Day celebrations with events, activities and a four-day holiday. Founding Day is always celebrated on February 22 to commemorate the country’s founding by Imam Mohammed bin Saud — was declared a national holiday last year following a royal decree by King Salman. Cultural and artistic events are taking place across the Kingdom. The UN in Saudi Arabia is celebrating Founding Day by launching a photography competition under the theme “People and Property” to highlight the Kingdom’s culture and heritage. Organizers suggest images of people wearing regional and traditional attire from different parts of the Kingdom, or of younger and older generations, cultural heritage and modern architecture, or regional landscapes. The Kingdom’s capital rang in Founding Day celebrations with parades and live performances in locations across the city   Saudi Arabia’s King Salman has publicly announced that there will be a public holiday in the country on Wednesday after the Saudi team edged Argentina 2-1 at the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. According to Arabnews, King Salman approved a suggestion made by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman… In "Sports" ...declares Friday July 31 Eid-el-Kabir Day Saudi Arabia has insisted that only 1000 pilgrims within the Kingdom would perform this year’s hajj. This decision was due to the coronavirus pandemic ravaging the World. The Kingdom’s Supreme Court has also announced that Friday, July 31, will be the first day of… In "Islam" Ten mosques in Saudi Arabia were temporarily shut after 15 worshippers tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and one death. Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Da’wah and Guidance intensified field inspections across the Kingdom, resulting in 32 mosques being shut over the past three days. COVID-19 numbers continue to rise… In "Islam"