   Brentford fuelled their ambition of playing European football with a 3-2 home victory over fellow hopefuls Fulham to extend their unbeaten run in the Premier League to 12 games on Monday. Ivan Toney’s second-half penalty and a late effort by Mathias Jensen sealed the points for ninth-placed Brentford against their west London rivals to edge them closer to the European qualification places. Toney, who is facing FA charges and a possible ban after alleged breaches of gambling rules, coolly slotted his kick past Fulham keeper Bernd Leno in the 53rd minute after a clumsy foul by Issa Diop on Christian Norgaard. Jensen then tapped in from a tight angle after a superb run and cut back by Kevin Schade in the 85th minute to kill of a below-par Fulham whose four-game unbeaten run came to an end. Brentford had taken an early lead with a deflected shot by Ethan Pinnock but Fulham hit back shortly before halftime when Manor Solomon scored for the fourth successive league match. Fulham’s Carlos Vinicius did grab a stoppage-time consolation with almost the last kick but Thomas Frank’s Brentford side are now unbeaten in the Premier League since October and have 38 points from 24 games, one point behind seventh-placed Fulham and four behind fifth-placed Liverpool. RESULT Brentford 3 – 2 Fulham *Courtesy: Reuters  *Draws for Palace, Brentford, Leeds, Everton Southampton came from behind to earn their second win of the fledgling Premier League season and move above a Chelsea side lacking cohesion and a cutting edge at St Mary's. Raheem Sterling is the Blues' top scorer and got Thomas Tuchel's side off to… In "Sports" ..as Kane's 250th Tottenham goal takes them top Demarai Gray salvaged a late point for Everton against Nottingham Forest at Goodison Park as the Toffees' winless start to the Premier League continued. Brennan Johnson looked to have scored a winner for the visitors that would have condemned Everton to a… In "Sports" ...as Kane scores 250th Tottenham goal   Demarai Gray salvaged a late point for Everton against Nottingham Forest at Goodison Park as the Toffees’ winless start to the Premier League continued. Brennan Johnson looked to have scored a winner for the visitors that would have condemned Everton to a third… In "Sports"