“That is not to say the exercise was without fault. For instance, there were technical problems with the electronic transmission of the results. Of course, there will be areas that need work to bring further transparency and credibility to the voting procedure. “However, none of the issues registered represents a challenge to the freeness and fairness of the elections. “I know some politicians and candidates may not agree with this view. That too is fine. If any candidate believes they can prove the fraud they claim is committed against them, then bring forward the evidence. “If they cannot, then we must conclude that the election was indeed the people’s will – no matter how hard that may be for the losers to accept. If they feel the need to challenge, please take it to the courts, not to the streets. “However, to do the latter means they are not doing it in the interest of the people, but rather to inflame, to put people in harm’s way and all for personal, selfish gains. “After a degree of polarization that necessarily accompanies any election, it is now time to come together and act responsibly. I call on all candidates to remember the peace pledge they signed just days before the election. Do not undermine the credibility of INEC. Let us now move forward as one. The people have spoken.”  A group, the Advocates for Bola Ahmed Tinubu (A4BAT) has described the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress( APC), Bola Tinubu, as the best candidate from the South West to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 election. A newspaper publication had claimed the the South-West is favoured to… In "News" .Says Nigeria ’ll experience rapid devt during tenure A political group, Advocates for Bola Ahmed Tinubu, A4BAT, 2023 Agenda, has felicitated with the winner of the All Progressives Congress' presidential primary, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his landslide victory in the just concluded presidential primaries, describing it as well deserved.… In "News" The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello and pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday congratulated the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on his emergence as the presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 general election.… In "News"