Following the train and Lagos State Staff Bus collision at PWD in Ikeja, the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) has given a situation report of the incident. The Principal Officer of the agency, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu said on the arrival of the agency’s response team at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a Viale BRT bus with an unknown registration number and a train was involved in an accident. The investigation gathered so far revealed that the immediate cause of the incident was reckless driving on the part of the BRT bus driver while trying to beat the train traffic signal before the moving train rammed into the BRT bus. Unfortunately, two adults were confirmed dead and several people were seriously injured. The injured victims have been administered first aid treatment by the agency’s medical team (paramedics) and LASAMBUS officials, well stabilized and being transported to the trauma centre at LASUTH Ikeja for further treatment. The agency’s LRT at Cappa alongside LRT at C3, LRU paramedics at C3, Onipanu, Cappa, LASAMBUS officials, Nigeria Police Force, LASTMA, LNSC and Nigerian Army are responders present at the scene of the incident.  Eight persons have been confirmed dead and several others were injured when a train rammed into a Lagos State government staff bus at the PWD bus stop in Ikeja, Lagos State. The South West Director of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mr Ibrahim Farinloye in a statement issued on… In "Metro & Crime" About 45 passengers escaped death yesterday as a mysterious fire gutted a fully loaded Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) bus around Anthony bus stop, Ikorodu Road.   This was as the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) warned residents against storage of inflammable items in their homes, public places, to reduce… In "Metro & Crime" Muritala Ayinla Lagos commuters this morning watched with awe and consternation as a moving train crushed a passenger bus at the popular PWD Bus Stop along and dragged it to Oshodi Bus Stop. For over 30 minutes, motorists, passengers and other commuters who witnessed the accident were in shock… In "Metro & Crime"