The operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have rescued a journalist, Seun Oduneye, from kidnappers after a gun battle that reportedly lasted for 45 minutes. Oduneye, the publisher of Issues Magazine, was abducted by gunmen at the Mobalufon area of Ijebu Ode, last Thursday. The journalist was returning to his house in Ijebu-Ode from Abeokuta in his Toyota Camry car at about 7:50 pm when he ran into the kidnappers in the Mobalufon area. The abductors later phoned his wife and demanded N30 million ransom to free the victim. The Police Spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on Monday morning, however, confirmed the rescue of the journalist. He said, after the report of the kidnapping, the Commissioner of Police, Frank Mba directed the DPO Obalende divisional headquarters, SP Murphy Salami, to ensure the safe rescue of the victim. Oyeyemi said the team embarked on a “technical and intelligence-based investigation” which led the operatives to the Idimu area of Lagos, where the kidnappers were hibernating waiting for the ransom. According to him, the hoodlums upon sighting the operatives engaged them in a shootout that lasted for about 45 minutes before they abandoned the car and took to their heels after sustaining varying degrees of gunshot injuries. He said the kidnappers later abandoned the victim and fled with gunshot injuries. Oyeyemi said “In compliance with the CP’s directive, the DPO mobilized his detectives and embarked on a technical and intelligence-based investigation of the incident. “Their efforts paid off when the Toyota Camry of the victim was traced to the Idimu area of Lagos, where the kidnappers were hibernating waiting for the ransom. “On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums engaged them in a shootout which lasted for about 45 minutes before they abandoned the car and took to their heels after sustaining varying degrees of gunshot injuries. “The victim’s car which was soaked with the kidnappers’ blood as a result of gunshot injuries was recovered by the Police team. “Having realized that the game is over, the kidnappers were left with no alternative but to abandon the victim, and he was rescued unhurt.” The Police publicist said CP Mba applauded the “gallant and professional” officers for a job well done. He, however, appealed to members of the public especially hospitals and traditional healers to inform the police if anybody with a gunshot injury is seen in their area. Oyeyemi quoted the CP to have warned criminals to stay clear from the Ogun state, as the Command is battle ready to take the fight to their doorstep  Police in Oyo State have rescued an official of Polaris Bank, Babatunde Dauda, and a palm wine tapper, Oluwaseun Oluokun, from kidnappers. Dauda and Oluokun were among five people abducted by armed herdsmen on Monday on the Ibadan-Ijebu-Ode Road. It was learnt that herdsmen, numbering about seven, wielding sophisticated rifles… In "Metro & Crime" Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan Men of the Oyo State Police Command on Tuesday rescued the abducted staff of Polaris Bank, Babatunde Dauda, and a palm wine tapper, Oluwaseun Oluokun, who were among the five kidnapped by armed herdsmen on Monday along the Ibadan-Ijebu Ode Road. It was learnt that herdsmen, numbering… In "Metro & Crime" Four days after gunmen struck at Onipe Community axis of Ibadan-Ijebu Ode Road, Oluyole Local Government Area of Oyo State and abducted three female victims, they yesterday regained their freedom through the intervention of the Oyo State Police operatives, who had earlier combed the forest where the abducted women, were… In "News"