Chelsea desperately need a top poacher and they have been linked to Osimhen, but they may take another option Chelsea may end their interest in Nigeria striker, Victor Osimhen because of his huge price tag and opt to sign English striker, Tammy Abraham instead. Since Todd Boehly took charge of Chelsea in 2020, he has been on a spending spree. He has spent over €500 million on new signings, but the investments have failed to yield results with Graham Potter in charge of the team. In attack, the blues have been abysmal especially since the turn of the year. They have scored just four goals in 11 games this year, but it is not for failure to create chances. Rather, it is because of their profligacy in front of the goal. Kai Havertz and Datro Fofana have been poor, and Pierre- Emerick Aubameyang has fallen out of favour with Potter. There have been strong reports that Chelsea are looking to recruit a new attacker in the summer. And they have been heavily linked with Nigeria hitman Osimhen. The Napoli poacher has been spectacular for the Partenopeans in the last 13 months, and some top clubs have eyes on him. But Napoli will only let Osimhen go if they receive over €100million. Football Insider believes the Blues may end their interest in Osimhen because of the money involved.  Rather, they may look at signing their former player Abraham from Roma. The Englishman was bred in Chelsea’s academy and played for the first team before he left for Roma in 2021. He has been impressive since his move to Italy, registering 34 goals and 10 assists in 86 games.  Chelsea have joined Manchester in the race to sign Napoli striker Victor Osimhen in the summer transfer window, according to the Mirror. The Blues are expected to be busy in the transfer market again at the end of the season as Graham Potter continues to reshape his team for… In "Sports" Chelsea legend Gianfranco Zola has enjoined the former English Premier League champions to break the bank for Victor Osimhen when the summer transfer window opens.. The 24-year-old striker, who reached 100 Club-record goals before Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi in his early career, has piqued the interest of top Premier… In "Sports" Napoli president Aurelio De Laurentiis has declared that Super Eagles forward Victor Osimhen is not for sale at any price. Osimhen’s red-hot form has attracted some of Europe’s top clubs recently. It has already been reported that both Premier League giants Manchester United and Chelsea are prepared to break the… In "Sports"