Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Nigeria’s President-elect has revealed how his administration will pilot the affairs of the nation for the next four years. Speaking at the APC Presidential Campaign Council headquarters in Abuja on Wednesday after the declaration of his victory by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Tinubu said he was ready to listen and take a difficult route in ensuring Nigerians see better days and the country of their dreams. He said, My fellow Nigerians, I am profoundly humbled that you have elected me to serve as the 16th President of our beloved Republic. This is a shining moment in the life of any man and an affirmation of our democratic existence. From my heart, I say thank you. “Whether you are Batified, Atikulated, Obidient, Kwankwasiyya, or have any other political affiliation, you voted for a better, more hopeful nation and I thank you for your participation and dedication to our democracy. “You decided to place your trust in the democratic vision of a Nigeria founded on shared prosperity and one nurtured by the ideals of unity, justice, peace and tolerance. Renewed hope has dawned in Nigeria. “We commend INEC for running a free and fair election. The lapses that did occur were relatively few in number and were immaterial to the final outcome. With each cycle of elections, we steadily perfect this process so vital to our democratic life. “Today, Nigeria stands tall as the giant of Africa. It shines even brighter as the continent’s biggest democracy. “I thank all who supported my campaign. From President Buhari who adeptly led my campaign as its chairman, to my Vice Presidential Candidate, Senator Kashim Shettima. To the progressive governors of our party and this nation, to the party leadership, and to our loyal party members. I owe you a debt of gratitude. To the entire campaign organisation, I thank you sincerely. “I thank my loving wife and dear family whose support was ceaseless and inspiring. Without you, this victory would not be possible. I am grateful to Almighty God. By His mercy, I was born a son of Nigeria and through His sublime purpose, I find myself the victor of this election. May He grant me the wisdom and courage to lead the nation to the greatness He alone has destined for it? “Finally, I thank the Nigerian people for their abiding belief in our democracy. I shall be a fair leader to all Nigerians. I will be in tune with your aspirations, charge up your energies and harness your talents to deliver a nation that we can be proud of. “To my fellow candidates, former VP Atiku, former governor Kwankwaso, former governor Obi and all others, I extend the hand of friendship. This was a competitive, high-spirited campaign. “You have my utmost respect. Political competition must now give way to political conciliation and inclusive governance. “During the election, you may have been my opponent but you were never my enemy. In my heart, you are my brothers. “Still, I know some candidates will be hard put to accept the election results. It is your right to seek legal recourse. What is neither right nor defensible is for anybody to resort to violence. Any challenge to the electoral outcome should be made in a court of law, and not in the streets. “I also ask my supporters to let peace reign and tensions fade. We ran a principled, peaceful and progressive campaign. The aftermath of our campaign must be as benign. “Yes, there are divisions amongst us that should not exist. Many people are uncertain, angry and hurt; I reach out to every one of you. Let the better aspects of our humanity step forward at this fateful moment. Let us begin to heal and bring calm to our nation. “Now, to you, the young people of this country, I hear you loud and clear. I understand your pains, and your yearnings for good governance, a functional economy and a safe nation that protects you and your future. “I am aware that for many of you, Nigeria has become a place of abiding challenges, limiting your ability to see a bright future for yourselves. “Remodelling our precious national home requires the harmonious efforts of all of us, especially the youth. Working together, we shall move this nation as never before.  ... as Senator Ibrahim advises APC on ticket Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir, has thrown his weight behind Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential bid. The emir gave his endorsement yesterday, while receiving a high-powered delegation of the Arewa Organisations Movement in support of Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition in his palace.… In "News" A s preparations for the 2023 general elections kick off, Nigerians have begun to unveil their stakes and aspirations in the coming dispensation. We have seen high-wired interests in the elective executive offices, especially the presidency. Given the declarations so far made, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and former governor of… In "Opinion" The National Coalition Support Groups for Tinubu (NCSGT) has promised to deliver the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu as the next president of the country. Speaking at the national meeting of the group in Lagos, the director general of the group, Francis Omotayo, said Tinubu… In "News"