 The gloves worn by Argentina goalkeeper Emiliano “Dibu” Martinez in the nail-biting penalty shootout with France at Qatar’s World Cup final last year were auctioned on Friday for $45 000 in aid of a children’s cancer hospital. “$45 000 for the Dibu gloves to help the Garrahan boys!” the Argentine Pediatric Foundation said on Instagram, referring to the oncology ward of the Garrahan Hospital, the main pediatric hospital in Argentina. The auction was held online Friday and featured Martinez via video-link from his home in England, where he plays for Aston Villa. The gloves were worn by Martinez as he faced the penalty shootout against France in the final in Qatar, with Argentina winning 4-2, granting Lionel Messi’s team the championship after drawing the match 3-3 in extra time. “When they gave me the option to donate the World Cup gloves, I didn’t hesitate, it’s a good cause for the boys,” said the goalkeeper during the event. Martinez had autographed the inside of the gloves when announcing the donation in February. “The World Cup finals are not played every day, (the gloves) are special. But it helps a child much more than me having them hanging in a frame in my house,” he said. *Courtesy: AFP  Goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez saved two penalties to help Argentina beat the Netherlands in a World Cup shootout and set up a semi-final against Croatia. Aston Villa's Martinez brilliantly denied Dutch pair Virgil van Dijk and Steven Berghuis, laying the platform for Argentina to win 4-2 in the spot-kicks, reports… In "Sports" Lionel Messi has led Argentina to World Cup glory after beating France on penalties in one of the most thrilling climaxes in the tournament's history. Argentina looked to have thrown the trophy away, after Kylian Mbappe scored twice in the last 10 minutes to take the tie into extra… In "Sports" …as La Albiceleste clears individual awards   Charles Ogundiya WITH AGENCY REPORTS The night was all about Lionel Messi as he inspired Argentina to their third World Cup title after defeating France 4-2 after penalty shootout with the game standing 3-3 after regulation time, same way legendry Diego Maradona inspired… In "Sports"