The leadership of the National Population Commission (NPC) said it experienced low turnout of Nigerians during the trial census, which is a prelude to the national headcount fixed for March 29 to April 2 this year and has therefore called on the media to accelerate the level of publicity and public enlightenment on the coming exercise. The Federal Commissioner, NPC Edo State, Dr Tony Aiyejina stated this at a one day capacity building workshop for journalists on effective reporting of the 2023 Population and Housing Census held in Benin City. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the census which he said is badly needed national planning 17 years after the last exercise was conducted in 2006. Aiyejina said this year’s exercise would for the first time be fully digitised. He said: “Let nobody deceive you, this census will be accurate because the technology we are using cannot be compromised, permit me to acknowledge the bold decision of the present administration under the leadership of President Muhammad Buhari to conduct a census for the country. “The present Commission, leveraging on the administration’s approval and support, decided to conduct a digital census for the country, the first of its kind in Nigeria. It was a paradigm shift of epochal proportions, because all processes, before, during and after the census, will be conducted on digital platforms and devices. “Nigerians need to be educated and enlightened on this new way of census taking. That is why the media as the fourth estate of the realm will play a critical and pivotal role in this census project. This is the main reason for holding this capacity building workshop for journalists. It will avail them the opportunity to understand basic concepts and methodology in census taking that will eventually result in effective reportage of the census.” In his opening remarks, the State Director of NPC, Mr Ayodele Okiei said the census would also help the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to take decisions in the creation of new constituencies which he said would deepen Nigeria’s democracy.  The National Population Commission (NPC) yesterday said it was embracing technology for the 2023 population census to reduce hitches and make the exercise successful. Besides, it called on those applying for ad-hoc roles to apply to work within their areas of residence to make the exercise easy and credible. The… In "News" The National Population Commission (NPC) has formally launched the 2023 Population and Housing Census e-recruitment portal for the success of the exercise in the state. A Federal Commissioner of the commission, Alhaji Chiso Abdullahi Dattijo, stated this while briefing newsmen at a press conference held at the NUJ secretariat yesterday.… In "News" The National Population Commission (NPC), yesterday, said that it would require the sum of N532.7 billion to conduct national census in April 2023. The Chairman of the Commission, Alhaji Nasir Isa Kwarra, disclosed this to members of the Senate Committee on National Population and Identity Management during its 2023 budget… In "News"