   Just Fontaine, who holds the record for the most goals scored at a single World Cup, has died at the age of 89. Fontaine scored 13 goals in just six matches for France at the 1958 World Cup in Sweden as they finished third, reports the BBC. He is joint-fourth on the all-time World Cup goalscorers list alongside Argentina’s Lionel Messi. “A star of French football, an outstanding striker, a legendary Reims player,” said his former club Stade de Reims. Only three players have scored more goals at World Cups than Fontaine, a statistic made more remarkable by the fact he only played in the 1958 tournament. He would not have even played there had it not been for injuries to fellow forwards Thadee Cisowski and Reims team-mate Rene Bliard. The striker went on to score in every game in Sweden, including four goals in a 6-3 win over West Germany in the third-place play-off. In total, Fontaine scored 30 goals in just 31 appearances for France between 1953 and 1960. He spent much of his club career at Stade de Reims, where he scored 145 goals in 152 appearances, winning three Ligue 1 titles and reaching the 1959 European Cup final, where they lost to a Real Madrid side containing Alfredo di Stefano and Ferenc Puskas. He also played for Nice and Moroccan side USM Casablanca but was forced to retire in 1962 at the age of just 28 after suffering a double leg fracture. Fontaine then enjoyed stints as a coach at Paris St-Germain, Toulouse and Morocco, where the forward was born before switching allegiance to France. In 2004 he was named on Brazil legend Pele’s list of the125 greatest living footballers.   Bayern Munich and Germany legend Gerd Muller has died at the age of 75. One of the best strikers in history, Muller scored 68 goals in 62 appearances for West Germany, including the winning goal in the 1974 World Cup final against the Netherlands, reports the BBC. He also scored… In "Sports" Kelechi Iheanacho's goal in the FA Cup semifinal against Southampton on Sunday has put him two goals short of former Watford striker Odion Ighalo as an African who scored 17 goals in all FA Cup competitions in the 2015-16 campaign.   Iheanacho scored his 15th goal of the season as… In "Sports" Bayern Munich's Robert Lewandowski scored in the last minute of the season to break Gerd Muller's 49-year record of Bundesliga goals in a campaign. Lewandowski looked poised to be frustrated but pounced in the 90th minute for his 41st goal of the season. The Poland striker now has 53 goals… In "Sports"