President of the Nigeria Football Federation, (NFF) Alhaji Ibrahim Musa Gusau on Tuesday sent messages of congratulation to three prominent members of the Nigeria Football family who were triumphant in the national elections held at the weekend. Alhaji Aminu Balele Kurfi, the Chairman of the Katsina State Football Association and who is also Chairman of the NFF Committee on Youth Competitions, was elected to the House of Representatives from the Dutsin-ma/Kurfi Federal Constituency of Katsina State on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC). Running on the platform of Labour Party, the General Manager of Remo Stars Football Club (a Nigeria Premier Football League team), Mr. Ekene Abubakar Adams beat all other contestants to win a seat to the House of Representatives from the Chikun/Kajuru Federal Constituency of Kaduna State. Also elected was the Proprietor of FC IfeanyiUbah and former Member of the Organizing Committee for the Africa Cup of Nations, Senator Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah. Ubah returns to the Senate of the Federal Republic having won the Anambra South Senatorial District under the flag of Young Peoples’ Party, (YPP).  Former Ogun State Sports Commissioner, Bukola Olopade, Chairman of Katsina State Football Association, Aminu Kurfi, and FCT FA Chairman, Abba Mukhtar, have all been appointed as members of a three-man panel of advisers for preparations of age-grade National Teams for upcoming major international competitions. The committee was appointed pending the… In "Sports" The Chairman, NFF Task Force on Youth competitions, Alhaji Aminu Balele Kurfi has pledged the sum of $20,000 for the U23 men national team, Olympic Eagles, if they beat Tanzania in the first leg of their U23 AFCON qualifying fixture in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Alhaji Kurfi made… In "Sports" Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) have changed the narratives ahead of Saturday’s Africa U23 Cup of Nations cracker between Nigeria and Tanzania, by swelling the money pot of the Olympic Eagles with the sums of $55,000 and N10 million. Makinde, who hosted… In "Sports"