A designated indoor play area is a must-have for any parent. It helps eliminate the chaos and clutter that can come with not having a designated, contained play space, and it gives your children a place where they can freely have fun, express themselves, and explore their imaginations. Setting up a playroom, however, can be somewhat of a daunting task. With so much already on your to-do list, how will you manage to repurpose an area of your house into a playroom, too? We know that organising a new playroom for your children can be a big undertaking, so here are five tips to help you organise a healthy indoor play area for your children. Remove all unnecessary distractions  One of the first steps in organising your indoor play area is removing all unnecessary distractions so that your children can focus on play. You want to be sure that your playroom isn’t too “busy.” It shouldn’t be in an area with much foot traffic, and if possible, you want your playroom to be a separate room. This way, your children can have their own space to focus – even when you have guests over. Removing distractions also means making your children’s playroom as screen-free as possible. Your playroom shouldn’t have a TV or computer, and you should generally limit technology in the room in general. However, small music players or educational toys might be an exception. Make the room inviting You should also design your new playroom to be fun and welcoming. While you don’t need to be an expert to make a great space, you can make your child’s play space warm and inviting with a few simple tricks. First, you should choose an area with plenty of natural light. A well-lit space is inviting and ensures that your children won’t strain their eyes while reading or drawing. You should also incorporate bright and fun colours on the walls, cabinets, and in the decor. Although you shouldn’t make the area too busy, fun pops of colour throughout the room will create a fun and enticing space for your children. Finally, you should also customise the space for your children. If you child has an extensive stuffed animal collection, then you can put them on display, or if your child loves space, you can make a solar system themed playroom. Create separate zones for different activities One of the biggest benefits of adding a playroom to your home is reduced clutter, but if you don’t keep your play space organised, you’ll end up with an even larger mess. That is why it is so important to create different zones for various activities. You can make a reading nook in one corner, a physical activity zone in another and an art table in the middle of the room. This way, your children know where to find their favourite toys and activities, and they’ll know where to put their things away when they’re finished. Gather toys and equipment As you create different play zones for your children, you’ll begin to take stock of the different toys and games that your children have. You might notice that you have way too many dolls or building blocks, or you may realise that you need a few more things to make your playroom complete. Adding a few new toys, books, and games to your playroom will get your children excited about using their new space. New books will get them excited to curl up in their reading nook, and a new indoor jungle gym will have them running around and exploring their new playroom in no time. There are also other great benefits of an indoor jungle gym play set that can give your children an opportunity to experience a real adventure without even leaving their home. As you design your children’s new play area, you should think of a few meaningful additions to get your children excited. Encourage free play To allow your children to get the most out of their playroom, you should allow them to play freely and enjoy their new space. Encouraging free play has numerous developmental benefits for your children. It helps them explore their imaginations and think creatively while allowing them to become independent and rely on themselves to create their own entertainment. It’s also a much-needed break for you. When your children have fun and safe space to play freely, you’ll be free to do the laundry, chat with friends, or just kick back and relax.   The week-long Western Conference of the 22nd MILO Secondary Schools Basketball Championship ended in Ibadan, last Thursday, with David Hall College, Obalende, Ikoyi, and Topfield College, Ajegunle, Apapa shinning, qualified to play in the National Finale of the Championship this year. The hard fighting Lagos school: David Hall College, Obalende,… In "Sports" Charles Ogundiya Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, declared on Friday that the 21st National Sports Festival tagged Delta 2022 will go ahead as scheduled. A joint technical meeting involving the Main Organising Committee (MOC), the Local Organising Committee (LOC) and other stakeholders of the event took place on Friday in Asaba… In "Sports" Delta State Government, yesterday, said no life was lost in the accident which occurred at the construction site of the indoor sports complex at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. State Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, who is also the Chairman Media Committee of the Local Organising Committee (LOC) for… In "Sports"