The spokesman of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  Presidential Campaign Council, Festus Keyamo on Monday mocked the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar over a protest held in Abuja. New Telegraph had reported that Atiku led the PDP protest at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the outcome and results announced. Reacting to the protest match in a series of tweets, the Minister of State for Labour and Employment said the protest was actually a funeral procession led by undertakers who refused to zone prior to the presidential election. Keyamo mocked the PDP leaders for adorning black dresses during the protest. He said, “The adorning of black dresses by the PDP leaders in their protest to the INEC office did the right thing because the event was actually a funeral procession. “The undertakers of PDP who refused to adhere to the principle of zoning took the corpse to the gates of INEC for proper burial. “If you observe the way a spokesman for PDP cries like a baby every minute on video, you will realise that his entire bogus life and future depended on their warped expectation of Atiku’s victory. “That is what happens to you when you venture into politics without a second address.”  The presidential candidate of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, led party leaders and governors to the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to protest the outcome of the February 25 presidential election. Among party leaders present were the National Chairman, Prof. Iyorchia Ayu and other… In "2023 Elections" The Presidential candidate of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has revealed why his party held a protest match at the National Headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday. Speaking at the gate of INEC headquarters in Abuja, the former Vice President said his party… In "2023 Elections" The People's Democratic Party (PDP) is currently holding a protest march against the presidential election results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday, March 1, 2023. New Telegraph reports that the protest that is ongoing at the INEC Headquarters in Abuja is been led by the presidential… In "2023 Elections"