  Japanese police are on the hunt for a person who sent bomb and death threats to hundreds of schools, prompting hasty closures.  The threats were faxed to high schools and universities earlier this week from a Tokyo-registered number, reports the BBC.  No explosives have been found in school buildings, according to police, and there have been no reports of attacks on pupils and staff so far.  Bomb threats are rare in Japan, which is known for its low crime rate.  The first wave of messages began on Monday, reaching schools and universities across the country. In one prefecture, Saitama, more than 170 schools received bomb threats, said officials.  Local media reported that one message claimed that over 330 bombs had been set up, while another read: “I planted a major bomb.”  Some reports said the messages demanded ransoms ranging from 300,000 yen (£1,870; $2,320) to 3 million yen.  On Tuesday, messages threatening to kill students and teachers with homemade weapons were sent from the same number to high schools in various prefectures including Osaka, as well as Saitama and Ibaraki near Tokyo.  The threats saw many schools in Japan shutting down as a precaution, though most had re-opened by Thursday.  Fax machines are still commonly used in Japan.  The Nasarawa State government yesterday ordered the immediate closure of both public and private schools in the state following security threats as part of proactive measures to safeguard the lives of students. The decision, the government said, followed security threats across the country, particularly in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT),… In "News" Dissatisfied with the state of insecurity around the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and the uncertainties about government’s response to the security threats, the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja has shut down all schools under its jurisdiction and directed pupils and students to embark on an indefinite vacation.   The forced vacation… In "News" The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Nigerian Airforce(NAF), Air Marshal (AM), Oladayo Amao, has said that for his men to be combat ready and operate at optimum level to counter both domestic and foreign threats, need to review curriculum of its training institutions and facilities. The Director of Public Relations… In "News"