   Onyekachi Eze, Abuja   The media office of the Labour Party’s (LP) presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi has described as laughable the news being circulated that he was considering stepping down. A statement from the Obi-Datti media office said it is absurd “that 18 persons are in a marathon to pick a trophy and somebody is suggesting that the front runner in the race who is already sighting the trophy wants to step down for somebody behind.” The statement noted that the candidate is confirmed to be leading by four scientifically conducted opinion polls, stating that since his emergency as LP standard bearer in May last year, “the Labour Party and its presidential campaign have increased in leaps and bounds attracting both local and global attention. “The truth is that Peter Obi’s performance is now the standard by which other contestants and their parties are being measured. “The fact that other parties contesting for the president have been cloning the LP candidate in their corruptly induced gift items like bags of rice, posters and bill boards speak volume of who is the man to beat in this race. “The fact that the other parties struggle to associate their own candidates with Obi even without his consent says it all who should be associated with withdrawing or discontinuing in the race.”  About four weeks to the 2023 presidential election, Special Adviser to Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, on Technology and Strategic Alliances, Valentine Ozigbo, has debunked the fake news making the rounds that key officials of the Labour Party’s Presidential Campaign Council met on Monday in Abuja to discuss moves… In "News" The media aides of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, have explained why Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) dreads facts and figures used by opponents in place of mere rhetoric. In a statement Sunday, the Obi-Datti Media Office, noted the attempts… In "News" Senator Uche Ekwunife (Anambra central) has said it’s laughable for former Anambra Governor Peter Obi to achieve his presidential ambition on the platform of the Labour Party (LP). The two-term Senator, who is gunning for another term on the ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), declared her party is… In "News"