Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Power, Hon. Magaji Da’u Aliyu (APC, Jigawa) has blamed the recurring collapses of the National Grid on obsolete equipment being used by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). Da’u, who represents Birnin Kudu/Buji federal constituency of Jigawa State said this in Birnin-Kudu while speaking during a reception held in his honour, to celebrate the completion of his Ph.D. programme. The lawmaker said though he was not trying to defend TCN but Nigerians should note that the company inherited old and outdated infrastructure which are hampering its service delivery to the nation. He further said that the House of Representatives plans to hold a public hearing soon to seek stakeholders’ views on the issue. Da’u, however, opposed the calls for the privatisation of TCN saying: “We’ve privatised DisCos and you see what happened; we have to take them back.” During the reception, which was witnessed by over 4,000 of his supporters and constituents, the lawmaker expressed optimism that the APC would win the 2023 general election at all levels in the state. Meanwhile, the people of Birnin-Kudu/Buji federal constituency of Jigawa state, have expressed their determination to work towards re-electing Hon. Magaji Da’u Aliyu next month.  Managing Director, Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Mr. Chiedu Ugboh, Wednesday, disclosed that the nation's integrated power plants (IPP) do not have gas to operate. Ugboh, who made this disclosure at an investigative hearing organised by the joint House of Representatives Committee on Power, Privatisation and Commercialisation, said that… In "News" The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N3.4 billion for the restoration of the power supply in Borno. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, while speaking with journalists after the council’s meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari also said the council approved a memorandum for the provision of an… In "Business" Chairman, House of Representatives’ Committee on Power, Magaji Da'u Aliyu, has revealed that there are projects worth N156 billion that are yet to be completed by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The chairman made the revelation when he led the committee members to tour some of the uncompleted projects… In "News"