Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has observed that with the rapid growth of innovation and technology recorded over the years globally, there weremore exciting new frontiers to be explored and harnessed by Nigeria’s talented and enterprising young entrepreneurs.  Osinbajo said this in a prerecorded speech at a weekend ceremony in Lagos to mark the 20th anniversary of Interswitch, a leading fintech company in Nigeria and Africa. According to a release made available to newsmen yesterday, Osinbajo, while speaking at the ceremony on Saturday, noted that, “as innovation and technology open exciting newfrontiersinmedicine and healthcare, we can be rest assured that Nigeria willnotlagbehind. Innovative disruptions thrive on natural and human occasioned-gaps within the system.” Hecontinued:“Thisiswhy our continent is undoubtedly the next and possibly the last frontier. “All across the continent, there are yawning gaps waiting to be plugged by innovative ideas and entrepreneurial efforts. It is exciting to see how sprightly young people, particularly, are rising to the challenge and the accelerated paceof creativedisruptionsin their wake.” On the incredible talents and potential of Nigeria and Africa’s young people to drive socioeconomic growth, the Vice President stated that, “in 2021 alone, African tech startups raised over $4 billion in funding, with over564 startups across the continent solvingcriticalproblemsinalmost every sector. “Within the next two decades Africa’s workforce will be the largest in the world. They are skilled and they are coming. As a result, more innovative disruptors will yet emerge to plug more of these gaps.”  Vice President Yemi Osibanjo has tasked Nigerian youths to be at the vanguard of science and technological advancement, innovations and inventions. He said that there are no alternatives to technological innovations and inventions to ensure that Nigeria not left behind as the world advances technologically. The vice president gave the… In "Business" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has testdriven a locally assembled electric car, Hyundai Kona. He described the experience as fantastic. The Vice President equally assured that the owner of the car “can literally charge it anywhere.” He drove the car during an exhibition tour of made-in-Nigeria products at the opening ceremony… In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that it was scandalous for Nigeria to still be dealing with out-of-school children at this age and time. Osinbajo said this Thursday in his virtual comments while declaring open the 20th meeting of the Joint Planning Board and the National Council on Development Planning… In "News"