 *Insists United star was ‘interfering with an opponent’ *City’s Akanji backs Hackett’s position  Former English referees chief Keith Hackett said there was “no doubt” Marcus Rashford was interfering with an opponent. “To allow Bruno Fernandes’s goal to stand is a total nonsense. If we do not call that offside, then the offside law is an ass,” he wrote in The Telegraph. “They will argue that he (Rashford) has to touch the ball to be active. The law is awful and requires a complete rewrite.” Meanwhile, Manchester City defender Manuel Akanji supports the former referee stressing Rashford was clearly interfering with play in the lead-up to Manchester United’s equaliser in their Premier League match on Saturday. City defenders tracked Rashford’s run from an offside position as he chased the ball for 30 metres before Bruno Fernandes stepped in at the last second to score. The linesman raised his flag for offside but referee Stuart Attwell awarded the goal, allowing United to mount a comeback and win 2-1. “Fernandes tells him he’s not in an offside position and he can shoot. That’s when he stopped and for me it’s a clear interference,” Akanji told Viaplay. “I understand he didn’t touch the ball. But what I always thought the rule was if you chase the ball and your intention is to play the ball … it’s clearly offside, but the ref decided it’s not.” United’s Luke Shaw told Sky Sports that the City defender covering Rashford was not able to reach the ball. “Rashy obviously made the run but I think the player that was with him, I don’t think was going to be able to get the ball anyway,” he said. “I don’t think he actually did interfere at all. “I think Rashy was clever to know that Bruno was there and leave the ball. For me, it was a goal.” *Courtesy: Reuters   Manchester United fought back for a dramatic 2-1 win against Manchester City that left their arch rivals fuming over a controversial VAR decision to allow Bruno Fernandes' equaliser, while troubled Liverpool crashed to a shock 3-0 defeat at Brighton on Saturday. On a dramatic day of Premier… In "Sports" Marcus Rashford scored an 82nd-minute winner as Manchester United came from behind to beat Manchester City at Old Trafford in the Premier League.   Rashford tapped in Alejandro Garnacho's cross four minutes after Bruno Fernandes netted a controversial equaliser with Rashford possibly in an offside position, reports the… In "Sports" England striker Marcus Rashford continued his fine goalscoring form as Manchester United cruised to a 3-0 victory over Nottingham Forest in the Premier League on Tuesday. Rashford, who scored three times for England at the World Cup in Qatar, set United on their way to victory with… In "Sports"