Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, yesterday said the two religions, Christianity and Islam, are of God, adding that those who fight over religion are only exhibiting crass ignorance. The governor spoke at the annual special prayer programme organised by the Methodist Church Nigeria, Ijesa North Diocese, Imesi- Ile, held at the Office of the Governor, Osogbo, the state capital. The governor, who was visibly elated, danced and sang praises to appreciate God, promising that he would remain eternally grateful to God for all His numerous benefits. While disclosing that the secret behind his electoral and other victories in life was his praise disposition, the governor requested those around to ask God for their pressing needs in faith, assuring them that God would answer. The state helmsman also promised that the fortune of the state would soon change for the better, and that Osun would soon become a reference point to her counterparts in the country. He added that the door of his office is always open for positive advice that can move the state forward, without jettisoning constructive criticisms. In his sermon, the Archbishop of Ijesa North Diocese of Methodist Church, Nigeria, Rev. Amos Akindeko, who picked his text from 2 Chronicles 7:11-22 and Deuteronomy 28:1-14, said the Lord has promised to heal the land. He revealed that God is ready to surprise the governor if he is ready to follow God’s injunctions.  Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke has dedicated his victory at the Supreme Court over Prince Dotun Babayemi, to God and the good people of the state. Describing the judgement as a decisive judicial victory Ademola described the outcome of the case as the manifestation of the strong hand of… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday finally presented the Certificate of Return to Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke. This is coming 72 hours after he was declared winner of the gubernatorial election held on Saturday in the state. INEC National Commissioner, Supervising Osun, Ogun and… In "News" Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has commiserated with David Adeleke aka Davido over the untimely death of his son, Ifeanyi. Okowa, who condoled with the entire Adeleke family over the incident, also commiserated with the Primate of All Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, on the passing of two… In "News"