  Wole Shadare  Scores of international flights at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA) on Monday morning were shut down as Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc. (NAHCO) workers embarked on strike over salary increment demand. A traveller, who was caught up in the chaos as a result of the face off, told New Telegraph that NAHCO staff in the early hours of Monday walked out of the international airport, saying they were on strike. “Even the Qatar flight I was supposed to travel with this morning landed and has returned to Doha as there was no one to handle them,” he said. He said passengers are frustrated as they have been kept outside the terminal building and no information, announcements or emails were sent to passengers to update them. NAHCO handles check-in, boarding and ramp services for several international airlines including Air France/KLM, Qatar, Ethiopian Airlines, Delta Airlines, Virgin Atlantic and Turkish Air among others. Travellers say if the situation is not addressed, more flights will be affected. A source at NAHCO, who craved anonymity, told New Telegraph that the management had met with the staff on Sunday over the proposed strike but assured that the situation will be addressed soon.   The Management of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc. has expressed sadness over the unfortunate incident of NAHCO equipment which impacted an Air Peace Airbus A320 Aircraft, at the Lagos Airport on Wednesday. The company noted that Air Peace is the biggest privately owned airline in Africa, and it is… In "News" Aviation authorities yesterday evening shut down the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja, Lagos following the obstruction of one of the runways by an AZMAN aircraft flying from Abuja to Lagos. It was gathered that the aircraft overshot the runway at the domestic terminal while trying to touch down at the airport,… In "News" Ex-workers of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHco) Plc have been embroiled in a bitter feud over 15 years with the management of the aviation handling company. They alleged a grand plan by the firm to divert N1.12 billion of severance/terminal benefits of former workers. In this interview with WOLE SHADARE,… In "Sunday Magazine"