The authorities of Lagos State University (LASU) are still savouring the outstanding research performance of the state university in the just concluded Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation Exhibition/Expo, Abuja 2023. The LASU Centre of Excellence for Sargassum and Research (LASU CESAR) emerged the overall winner in the Tertiary Institutions Category of the Science, Technology and Innovation Expo, tagged “Abuja 2023,” which took place at the Eagle Square, Abuja.  The Centre presented four major research products for assessment at the expo, which are Animal Feeds (Fish, Pigs, Poultry, Grasscutter and Rabbit); Pharmaceutical (Vitamins A & C, Alginate and Fucoidan); Construction (ceiling boards and bricks); and Cosmetics  cat fish oil and organic body cream). In the assessment, the Animal Feeds for fish, Pigs, chicken, grasscutter and rabbit won the overall best product in the Tertiary Institutions category of the exhibition/expo. Over 130 individuals and university participated in the five-day exhibition/expo, while more than 340 products were assessed by the team of assessors from the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation based on the following criteria, which include originality, creativity/innovativeness, cost effectiveness and efficiency, local raw materials, content/ labelling/packaging, presentation, patent, contribution to national economic growth and sustainable development, potential for commercialisation, among others.  The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Senator Olorunimbe Mamora; Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, Mr Henry Ikechukwu Ikoh; Lagos State Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mr Hakeem Fahm; and the Senior Special Assistant to the Lagos State Governor, Mr Saheed Balogun, as well as Heads of research institutes, ministry officials, corporate organisations, captains of industries, among others expressed delight with the ingenuity of the LASU CESAR Team. Mamora, while congratulating all the awardees and in particular, LASU for the feat, commended the university for embarking on a cutting-edge research that is capable of empowering and impact the lives of the people, even as he promised to provide necessary support that will take LASU CESAR to the expected heights. Meanwhile, Ikoh, in his remarks, pledged that readiness of the ministry will make LASU CESAR the hub for Scientific Innovation  Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo, has recorded a giant leap in research and development that will leapfrog the institution on global ranking.   This is as the National Association for Research in Science Teaching (NARST) approved 12 research proposals from LASU’s Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative STEM… In "Education" A partnership that will further consolidate the internatialisation drive, boost faculty/student exchange programme with a view to deepening the quality of academic and research activities of the university, has been signed by the Lagos State University (LASU) with an Indian institute.   The university, last week, signed a Memorandum of… In "Education" The Vice-Chancellor of Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello expressed the readiness and determination of the stateuniversity and her administration to partner the institution’s Alumni Association in the quest to make the university the best ivory tower in West Africa and Africa by extension. This was as she appealed… In "Education"