A family source has confirmed that Nigeria’s military president, Gen Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) travelled abroad for medical check-up over the weekend. New Telegraph gathered that Babangida, who travelled with his second son, Aminu and a security aide, is expected to return after the general elections. Confirming this to our correspondent yesterday, a close source to the family, Mahmud Abdullahi, said there was no cause for alarm adding, what Nigerians need to do is to pray and wish him well. “I did not discuss with General before he left Nigeria and where he had travelled to and why. But one thing I know for sure is that he is due for a medical check-up because recently he has not gone for it. “I believe that he travelled to Germany over the weekend for the medical checkup.” When asked further if IBB left the country as speculated to evade any controversy ahead of the general election, Mahmud said: “I cannot give more details about the trip since I did not discuss it with my boss before he travelled out of the country.”   Bola Tinubu, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has travelled out of the country after weeks of consultation with stakeholders in the country over his 2023 presidential ambition. A source in the former governor’s camp confirmed to TheCable, on Friday, that Tinubu travelled to London, the United Kingdom,… In "News" …sends 80th birthday felicitation   As billionaire businessman Femi Otedola joins Nigerians felicitating with ex-military President Ibrahim Babangida, who marks his 80th birthday on Tuesday, he also thanked IBB for the role he played during the political logjam caused by the prolonged sickness of President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua in 2010.… In "News" *Says: 'Your service will always be remembered' President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) on his 79th birthday. The President in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, joined family, friends, and associates to celebrate with the elder statesman.… In "News"