President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the reconstitution of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) board and the appointment of some new members and reappointment of some existing members to the board.  The appointment of the existing members of the board whose four-year term became effective on December 9, 2018 expired on December 9, 2022. Irrespective of the tenure of the appointment, NDIC operates a semester system for its board.  Therefore, the board stands dissolved at the end of the tenure of first appointment, a statement yesterday by Tanko Yunusa, Media Assistant to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Zainab Ahmed said. The board has five other members whose membership is by virtue of institutional or Office representation in line with the provision of Section 5 (2 c and d) of the NDIC, Act, 2006 It becomes imperative to reconstitute the governing board the NDIC to avoid vacuum, ensure smooth operations of the corporation and ultimately boost the confidence of stakeholders and clients within the financial and banking sectors of the nation’s economy. The appointment of some new members into the Board is aimed at injecting fresh ideas necessary to reposition the corporation for enhanced performance.  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday appointed George Abang Ekpungu as the Secretary of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).   A statement issued by the media aide to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Dr. Umar Gwandu, said the appointment is for a fresh tenure… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the reconstitution of the board of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria. According to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, this was with a view to repositioning the bank as a core banking institution with core competence in mortgage finance. Recall that the… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has renewed the appointment of Hadiza Bala Usman as the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for anothe five years. According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, the President also approved the reconstitution of the Non-Executive Board of… In "News"