  Debutants Madagascar swept into the African Nations Championship (Chan) quarterfinals on Monday with a 3-0 drubbing of Sudan in Algeria. The Indian Ocean islanders also beat Ghana last week, and topping group C earned them a last-eight showdown against Mozambique on Saturday. Ghana progressed as runners-up and will face the group E winners – Cameroon or Niger – in another fixture on Saturday. Tokinantenaina Randriatsiferana put Madagascar 1-0 up after 13 minutes on a chilly night in the eastern city of Constantine, beating goalkeeper Mohamed Mustafa at his near post with a low shot. Solomampionona Razafindranaivo doubled the lead on the half-hour with the goal of the match – a superb lofted shot with the side of his foot over Mustafa. Lalaina Rafanomezantsoa completed the rout three minutes later with a simple tap-in off a low cross after Mustafa had been rounded. This is the second time Madagascar have made an instant impact in a CAF tournament after debuting in the Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) four years ago and reaching the quarterfinals in Egypt. The CAN is open to home and foreign-based players while the CHAN is confined to footballers with clubs in their country of birth. But despite the restrictions, CHAN matches are classified as full internationals with results counting toward the FIFA world rankings. On Tuesday, the last two quarterfinals places will be filled after a double-header in which Mali face Mauritania in group D and Cameroon meet Niger in group E. *Courtesy: AFP  Debutants Madagascar produced the first shock of the African Nations Championship (CHAN) in Algeria by defeating two-time runners-up Ghana 2-1 in chilly Constantine on Sunday. Goals by Solomampionona Razafindranaivo and Tokinantenaina Randriatsiferana after 10 and 61 minutes gave the Indian Ocean nation a two-goal advantage. Augustine Agyapong… In "Sports" *Wins for Morocco, Burkina Faso and Benin Algeria racked up a massive win to headline the second day of group stage action in Africa’s 2022 World Cup Qualifying tournament, while there were also key wins for Morocco, Burkina Faso and Benin. Algeria, the reigning Africa Cup of Nations champions, got… In "Sports" Sunday’s action in Africa’s 2022 World Cup Qualifiers revealed the identity of two further teams progressing into the playoff phase next year, with DR Congo and Ghana punching their tickets. Ghana squeezed into the final qualification phase by the narrowest of margins, as a controversial Andre Ayew penalty saw… In "Sports"