Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Friday in Lagos unfolded his comprehensive economic plan before the organised private sector under the aegis of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group. The event provided another opportunity for Tinubu to present his plans to a select group of stakeholders as part of his various town hall meetings across the country. While itemizing his administration’s path to economic recovery if elected in next month’s presidential election, he noted that before economic recovery could be achieved the nation must be secured. “First, to achieve the economy we seek, we must resolve the pressing security issues. No nation can flourish with terrorists and kidnappers in their midst,” he said. He further added that “My core belief is that the private sector must be the prime driver of economic progress. However, the government establishes the framework within which the private sector must operate. “If that framework is sound, the private sector will flourish. If the framework is frail or incomplete, then the private sector will struggle.” He added that he would urgently address fiscal, monetary, and trade reforms to effectively increase domestic production, thus serving to curb imported inflation, and to ensure better macro-economic stability by accelerating inclusive growth and job creation across Nigeria. To achieve this, he listed principles that will guide their plans and policies. These principles include how to tackle inflation, petrol subsidy and monetary policy. “I do not hold to the mainstream view that all forms of inflation are best tackled by interest rate hikes and shrinking the economy. “Supply induced inflation does not lend itself to this harsh medicine, just as one does not cure a headache by plucking out one’s eye. “I do not embrace the conventional wisdom that fiscal deficits by the national government are inherently bad. “All governments, especially in this era of fiat currency, run secular budget deficits. This is an inherent part of modern governance. The most powerful and wealthiest governments run deficits, as do the poorest nations. “A budget deficit is not necessarily bad. Look at the Japanese example with high government borrowing and low inflation. The real issue is whether deficit spending is productive or not. Unproductive deficit spending is a compound negative. Especially if backed by excessive borrowing of foreign currency. This is not classroom economics but it is the lesson of the real economic history of nations. “It is based on this idea that I believe we must remove the PMS subsidy immediately. It has outlived its shelf life as a public good. We will neither subsidize neighbouring countries’ fuel consumption nor allow a select few to reap windfall profits and hoard products. “And the subsidy money will not be ‘saved’ because that means elimination from the economy. Instead, we will redirect the funds into public infrastructure, transportation, affordable housing, education and health, and strengthen the social safety net for the poorest of the poor, thus averting increased security challenges. “Fiscal policy will be the main driver. Monetary policy is weaker and a less effective instrument. Bad monetary policy is, of course, destructive. But even good monetary policy cannot carry the load the fiscal arm can. Thus, we must steadily remove ourselves from the fiction of tying our budgets to dollar denominated oil revenues. “This is effectively pegging our budget to a dollar standard. It is as outdated as the fuel subsidy itself. It is also restrictive and ties the economy to slow growth. Just as the common man must mentally sever the cord to the subsidy, the elite must sever the cord to this artificial fiscal restraint,” he added. He said his administration’s budgeting would be based on the projected spending levels needed to push real annual growth rate above 10 per cent, while reducing the unemployment rate, so that the economy can be doubled in seven years. He added that to cater for the economic needs of the over 200 million Nigerians, his administration will expand the manufacturing base to provide jobs, and also create affordable goods and products for the population. According to him; “We will build on this, with a focus on using technology and expertise to accelerate growth in yields. We will deliver the critical infrastructure necessary to achieve the commodity transformations and agribusinesses to plug seamlessly into higher, more lucrative, entry points in regional and global value chains. “Building on this foundation, we will accelerate the faithful implementation of the “Infrastructure Master Plan” by adopting proven financing structures till we deliver an acceptable stock of hard infrastructure through seaports and airports; and road, rail and water transportation linkages that can support our desired economic growth. On the major issue of unemployment in the country, Tinubu promised to focus on the creative sector, which has an opportunity to provide millions of jobs annually. He said, “Taking the creative sector as one example of a sector that already engages millions of our youth, the sector has significant untapped potential for generating quality jobs and foreign exchange earnings for our country. “From music to movies to fashion, when elected, our Administration will create a legal environment that can attract much-needed private investment into the sector, eliminate widespread piracy and copyrights issues, as well as support the development of quality hard infrastructure needs.” Tinubu also added “We will work to ensure all borrowing is geared toward productive economic activity, focusing on internal debt discipline. “Closing fiscal gaps, promoting domestic revenue mobilization, implementing tax reforms, curbing corruption and optimising budget implementation are crucial for economic viability. Streamlining bureaucracy and reducing cost of governance will be imperative. “Policy options to boost non-oil revenues are key to our revenue mobilization strategy. The use of technology to drive reforms implementation is crucial. “Despite the adoption of the Petroleum Industry Act 2021, government revenue from oil has continued to decline. We shall work in a coordinated manner to implement reforms that will remove the bottlenecks to the PIA implementation and attract increased inflows of investment into the sector, address issues of oil theft and vandalization of oil infrastructure, and promote an increase in oil production to tap into the current high oil prices.”   A pan-Yoruba youth socio-economic group, the Southwest Renaissance Group has berated the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over the current crisis rocking Afenifere. In a release signed by the Convener of the group, Hon. Olaitan Abdul Salam at the weekend, the group referred to the APC candidate as a… In "News" Sanwo-Olu To Private Sector: Only Tinubu among contenders has magic wand to turn challenges to opportunities Business leaders, investors and captains of industry across various sectors now have a glimpse into the economic agenda of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Tinubu and his team,… In "News" A political group, Advocates for Bola Ahmed Tinubu 2023 Agenda, (A4BAT) and Tinubu Support Organization (TSO) has appealed to delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to vote for Bola Tinubu as the party’s candidate. This comes ahead of the May 29 ruling party’s presidential primary election to elect a… In "News"