Cameroon head coach Rigobert Song says his “little brother” Modeste M’Bami was “a joyful and immensely talented player” following the death of the former Indomitable Lion at the age of 40. The former Paris St-Germain and Marseille midfielder died after suffering a heart attack in the French city of Le Havre on Saturday. Song played alongside M’Bami for Cameroon and both were part of the team that reached the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup final in France. It was a tournament overshadowed by the death of midfielder Marc Vivien Foe due to cardiac issues during the semi-final clash with Colombia in Lyon. “I will keep your good humour, your talent and your joy of living with me. Rest in peace my little brother,” said Song, who was captain when M ‘ B a m i appeared in all five mat ches at the 2003 t o u r n a – ment in France. Cameroon FA boss Samuel Eto’o, who played alongside M’Bami when the country clinched Olympic gold in 2000, said: “You left too soon.” Former Indomitable Lions striker Patrick Mboma said: “Not you Modeste, it’s very sad. You are a lion for eternity.” African football’s governing body, CAF, says it “conveys heartfelt condolences to the family of M’Bami and the Cameroonian football family during this difficult moment   Neighbours and Nigeria’s football rivals, the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon have already assembled in Vienna, Austria ahead of the two friendly matches with Nigeria this Friday and next week. According to Sports Village Square coach, Antonio Conceicao and his staff have shortlisted 28 players for the games. They are… In "Sports" African football legend and former player of Cameroon’s Indomitable Lions, Samuel Eto’o Fils has suspended the liaison officer of the team, Ferdinand Makota. Eto’o is the president of the Cameroon football federation, Fecafoot. According to information from multiple sources, especially kick442 and sportglitz, the suspension order which took immediate… In "Sports" FIFA, Cameroon FA and players of the Indomitable Lions Cameroon have offered condolences to the families of those who died at the stadium Stampede on Monday after the Cameroon, Comoros match. captain Vincent Aboubakar issued a statement on behalf of the squad, saying the Indomitable Lions "deeply wail" after hearing… In "Sports"