 Onyekachi Eze, Abuja  A civil society organisation, African Centre for Justice and Human Rights (ACJHR) has accused the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of conspiracy to undermine free and fair elections in the country next month. The group, in a statement on Thursday by its Strategic Communication Consultant, Comrade Abubakar Isa, also said the APC candidate is not happy with President Muhammadu Buhari’s economic and electoral reforms. Tinubu had at a campaign rally in Abeokuta, Ogun State on Wednesday, accused the Buhari administration of using the fuel scarcity and recently introduced new naira notes and cash withdrawal policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to block his chances at next month’s presidential election. ACJHR, however, said this was an indictment on the APC government, noting that there is no other proof that the APC’s presidential candidate is part of those that want to undermine Buhari’s promise for peaceful transition. It recalled that Tinubu was not happy with the planned use of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the general election.  There are indications that the All Progressives Congress (APC) may punish the Lagos strongman, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his outburst in Ogun on Thursday in which he said without him Muhammadu Buhari would not have won the 2015  election. The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator… In "Top Stories" The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has expressed joy over President Muhammadu Buhari’s pledge to support his February 25 Presidential election and the party.   Tinubu spoke at the weekend when he received the party's National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and the APC National Working… In "News" 2022, which ends today, is a year preceding another election year in Nigeria. As expected, the year was full of political activities, especially party primary elections that came with the usual crisis, disagreements, unbridled ambition, and all forms of political moves. It was a year that the much touted Electoral… In "Politics"