Top seed Swiatek crashes      Top seed Iga Swiatek was bundled out of the Australian Open fourth round on Sunday, with title threat Coco Gauff also exiting in tears, as a pair of underestimated Grand Slam champions tore open the women’s draw.  World No 1 Swiatek was sent packing by Elena Rybakina in the early match at Rod Laver Arena, the Pole falling 6-4 6-4 to the Kazak Wimbledon winner who started her tournament in the Melbourne Park wilderness of Court 13.  Rybakina shrugged off the scheduling snub before the fourth round showdown but used it as fuel in her first appearance on centre court as a tightly wound Swiatek slowly unravelled.  “I felt the pressure, and I felt that I don’t want to lose instead of I want to win,” said Swiatek, who dominated last season with two Grand Slam wins.  “I felt like I took a step back in terms of how I approach these tournaments, and I maybe wanted it a little bit too hard.”  Rybakina, the 22nd seed, might have expected to face Gauff in the quarterfinals but the much-hyped American teen was upset 7-5 6-3 by Jelena Ostapenko, the forgotten Grand Slam winner of women’s tennis.  The 2017 French Open champion thrashed 30 winners past Gauff on Margaret Court Arena, her last two sealing the match in style to leave the 18-year-old in tears at her post-match media conference.  “I feel like it was rough,” Gauff told reporters, before breaking down with emotion.  “When you play a player like her and she plays really well, it’s like, you know, there’s nothing you can do.”  The win secured a first Australian Open quarterfinal for hard-hitting Ostapenko, as well as the first at a Grand Slam since her run to the Wimbledon semifinals in 2018.  Latvia’s first – and only – Grand Slam champion stunned the world when she hoisted the trophy at Roland Garros as an unseeded 20-year-old.  She has had mostly lean years since but never doubted she would return to the spotlight again.  “My life changed a lot (after the 2017 French Open), so I needed a few years to really get used to what happened because I was really young,” she said.  “I always knew and believed in my game. If I play well, I can beat almost anyone.”  While the high seeds have tumbled, American Jessica Pegula has been rock solid, and she reached her third consecutive quarterfinal at Melbourne Park by beating Czech 20th seed Barbora Krejcikova 7-5 6-2.  Third seed Pegula will face the winner of Victoria Azarenka and China’s Zhu Lin for a place in the semifinals.  *Courtesy: Reuters  Rafael Nadal fell to his earliest US Open loss in six years on Monday when he was knocked out by Frances Tiafoe while Iga Swiatek became the first Polish woman to reach the quarterfinals. Four-time US Open champion Nadal, bidding for a 23rd Grand Slam title, lost 6-4, 4-6,… In "Sports" World number one Iga Swiatek capped a dominant season by beating Tunisian fifth seed Ons Jabeur at the US Open to win her second major title of 2022. Poland's Swiatek, 21, won 6-2 7-6 (7-5) to secure the season's final Grand Slam trophy on the New York hard courts,… In "Sports" The 2022 US Open is upon us and being the final Grand Slam event of the year, players will be going all out to make sure they produce good results. With the women’s singles draw now revealed, each player knows what to expect, their potential paths to the… In "Sports"