The spokesman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, Mr Charles Aniagwu, has said that the economic blueprint of the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar would address rising food inflation in the country. Aniagwu said Atiku was the only presidential candidate that is into agricultural production and would stimulate certain processes, which will include soft loans, access to land, fertilisers farm implements as well as agro-processing to improve the agricultural value chain. Speaking on the PDP’s Economic Blueprint on African Independent Television programme, Kakaaki on Wednesday, Aniagwu said Atiku was already practicalising production and processing as a farmer and was desirous to implement strategies aimed at improving the agricultural value chain with a view to bringing down the very disturbing food price inflation in the country. He said: “As a successful farmer, Atiku owns Adama Farms and they are into the production of beverages and other products in the food value chain, he already knows that for the private sector to have a role you need to be able to stimulate certain processes including access to soft loans, ensure access to land are made easier.”  The spokesman of the Alhaji Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation, Mr Charles Aniagwu, has said his principal remains the only candidate that has adequately prepared for the rescue Nigeria project from the current economic quagmire as from 2023. Aniagwu, who doubles as the Delta State Commissioner for Information, said the… In "News" The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has maintained that he is more than determined to prevail on the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike to sheath his sword and collapse his faction to the larger group of the party. The spokesperson for the Atiku-Okowa Presidential… In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Presidential Campaign Council, said its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was quoted out of context in the comment he made when he appeared before Arewa Constitutive Forum in Kaduna.   Atiku was quoted to have told his audience not to vote to Yoruba or Igbo candidate… In "News"