The Labour Party has described the news making the rounds suggesting that a company, Next International, linked to its presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, as untrue and laden with mischief. A statement issued by the Head of Media, Mr. Diran Onifade, yesterday, however, blamed members of the opposition party for concocting the news to discredit Obi whom it stated was riding high towards the forthcoming general election. Onifade stated that those peddling the news are doing so after having wasted resources to procure anything that would paint Obi in bad light before the voting public. “We have watched with bemused scepticism as agents of the political opposition unsettled by the high rising profile of the Labour Party flag bearer, ran around and made fools of themselves over the Next International (UK) Limited being removed from the record in 2021,” the party wrote. Setting the records straight, Onifade on behalf of the party wrote that: “For the record, the entity was 99% owned by Next Nigeria International Ltd. and established as its buying office in the 90s and Peter Obi was its CEO.” The party added that the company was wounded when Obi became governor of Anambra State in 2006 by his wife who as-sumed the management in the absence of her spouse. According to the party, Peter Obi has consistently maintained that he is no longer involved in any Next International related businesses. In alleging deliberate mischief, the party stated that: “When our principal insists that you go and verify facts about him and the information he dishes out, it didn’t say go and falsify facts.”  The Labour Party (LP) has said Akin Osuntokun jettisoned his senatorial ambition to work for a new Nigeria. Osuntokun was named Director General of the LP Presidential Campaign Council on Tuesday, to replace Dr. Doyin Okupe who resigned the position after his conviction for money laundering. Head, Media of the… In "Politics" The Labour Party s (LP) has said the reports of attacks on facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by arsonists, portends great threat to free, fair and peaceful conduct of the 2023 general elections. A statement by the head, Obi-Datti Media Campaign Organisation, Diran Onifade, noted that the… In "News" The Labour Party (LP) has appointed former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Political Adviser, Prof. Akin Osuntokun, as its new Presidential Campaign Organisation's Director General. His appointment followed Dr Doyin Okupe’s resignation after his conviction for money laundering by an Abuja High Court. The LP National Chairman Julius Abure, who announced the… In "News"