The presidential candidate of thePeoplesDemocratic Party (PDP) in next month’s election, Atiku Abubakar, has once again promised to restructure the country if voted into office during 2023. Speaking yesterday in Yenagoa during his campaign, Atiku also promised  to uplift the living conditions of Nigerians through the creation of more jobs that would encompass the youth, maintaining that he will also tackle insecurity if he wins. Maintaining that Bayelsa is PDP and PDP is Bayelsa, the PDP flag bearer said all the state got since 1999 were from the PDP, adding that the people of the state should vote for the PDP. “People of Bayelsa, I want to remind you that since the beginning of democracy, Bayelsa has been PDP and PDP has been Bayelsa. Since 1999, all the things that the state got, all came from the PDP. Everything you see in Bayelsa today was provided by the PDP government. “Therefore, I’m calling on you the people of Bayelsa, don’t make the mistake of  leaving the PDP. You have produced a president and governors, so the future of Nigeria and that of Bayelsa is tied to the PDP. “I said I’m committed to implementing five key programmes in this country starting from the unification of the country. I’m going to give every part of this country a sense of belonging.”   A n elder statesman and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Asara A Asara, has called on Nigerians to throw their weight behind the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, whom he said has a combination of public service and private sector experience to make Nigeria great. Asara, who is a… In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives flag bearer for Nembe-Brass Federal Constituency of Bayelsa State, Mrs Marie Enenimiete Ebikake, has thanked the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar for assisting flood victims in the state. Ebikake said the assistance and donations would go a long way in… In "News" The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 presidential election Atiku Abubakar has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of deceiving Nigerians to get their votes in 2015 with a promise to restructure the country once voted into power. Atiku, who spoke Tuesday in Abuja during… In "News"