   An aristocrat mother who has gone missing with her rapist partner and their newborn baby was ‘brainwashed’ by a charismatic Nigerian preacher, a friend has said. Constance Marten is understood to have spent around six months living in Nigeria and working for the controversial pastor T B Joshua, becoming one of his ‘disciples’ at about the time she went to university. A friend of the 35-year-old, who is known to friends as Toots, said: ‘The experience traumatised her. ‘She was not the same person when she came back. She always used to be wild, but also happy, kind and buoyant. ‘She was darker when she came back and she found things more difficult. She never told us what really happened.’ Ms Marten’s partner Mark Gordon, 49, served 20 years in the US for rape. The couple and their baby were last spotted on CCTV at East Ham station, London, two days after their car caught fire on the M61 near Bolton on January 5. The mum and child have had no medical attention since the birth and Ms Marten’s dad Napier, who has royal links, is worried about them. *Courtesy: metro.co.uk   An Ekiti State Chief Magistrates' Court sitting in Ado-Ekiti yesterday remanded a man, Ola Samuel, for allegedly raping a woman. Samuel was said to have raped the middle-aged woman and sent her nude video to her former husband via social media.   The offence is said to be contrary to… In "Metro & Crime" Bishop Steven Ogedengbe is the founder and General Overseer of Wisdom Chapel, a Pentecostal denomination located in Shasha Lagos. A kinsman of the late Prophet T. B. Joshua who shares a lot in common with him, Bishop Ogedengbe, in this interview with TAI ANYANWU gives more insight into the crisis… In "Faith" …as family fight for wife   There are strong indications that reports tipping Evangelist Evelyn, wife of demise televangelist and founder of Synagogue Church of All nations (SCOAN), Prophet T B Joshua, has been chosen to succeed her late husband as the head and spiritual director of the SCOAN, is… In "Faith"