  Nigerian boxer, Efe Ajagba, has claimed a win against formerly unbeaten Stephan Show in the early hours of Sunday morning faring better than the last time he fought a boxer-puncher. Two fights after his one-sided, unanimous-decision defeat to Frank Sanchez, Ajagba won the contest against previously undefeated Shaw by unanimous decision. Nigeria’s Ajagba was the aggressor for almost all 10 rounds, whereas Shaw seemed reluctant to engage with the hard-hitting heavyweight contender in a main event fight at the Turning Stone Resort Casino in Verona, New York. Judges Eric Marlinski, John McKaie and Don Trella scored their uneventful encounter identically, 96-94 for Ajagba. Nigeria’s Ajagba (17-1, 13 KOs), a 2016 Olympian, won a second straight fight since Sanchez beat him. Cuba’s Sanchez (21-0, 14 KOs) dropped Ajagba in the seventh round and comfortably out-pointed him on all three scorecards in a 10-rounder that was part of the Tyson Fury-Deontay Wilder undercard in October 2021 at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. Ajagba underwent surgery on both elbows following his loss to Sanchez. Healthier and more confident, he promised he would box better against Shaw than he did versus Sanchez. St. Louis’ Shaw, meanwhile, was unable to capitalise on the biggest opportunity of his nine-year professional career. Without hesitation, Shaw (18-1, 13 KOs, 1 NC) took this fight against Ajagba on less than one month’s notice. Ajagba was supposed to fight Colombian contender Oscar Rivas (28-1, 19 KOs), but Rivas suffered a detached retina while training last month. Shaw was already training to fight Italian prospect Guido Vianello (10-1-1, 9 KOs), who was stopped due to a cut by Jonnie Rice (16-6-1, 11 KOs) in the seventh round of the co-main event.   Segun Bailey   America-based and Nigerian heavyweight boxer, Efe Ajagba, is gradually realising his dream of meeting World heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua, in near future after he survived a broken wrist and had to labour to one point victory over Jonathan Rice during his debut outing under the banner of… In "Sports" ...Nigeria's Efe Ajagba loses Intercontinental title bid Tyson Fury delivered a thrilling 11th-round stoppage over Deontay Wilder to retain his WBC heavyweight crown as their trilogy bout produced another classic on an electric night at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. Twenty months since Fury dethroned the American, the 33-year-old… In "Sports" Nigerian h e a v y - w e i g h t boxer, Efe Ajagba, says it will be a dream come true to go head to head with Anthony Joshua in front of boxing lovers in Nigeria. Born in Nigeria, Ajagba is one of the fast-rising heavyweight boxers… In "Sports"