The National Population Commission (NPC) has fixed the national population and housing census for March 29 spanning April 1, 2023. NPC Chairman, Nasir Kwarra, disclosed this yesterday while speaking with State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. “By March 29 to April 2, our staff will be in the field enumerating people,” he said. The chairman added that the technological tools to be deployed would be able to code building and landmass, detailing information such as location, and landscapes among others. Kwarra, who said his commission would ensure a credible exercise, noted that non-Nigerians would equally be counted so long as they are in the country at the time of the exercise. He further said the exercise would be different from the previous ones marred by controversies with the use of high end technology. Kwarra said; “From March 29 to April 2, our staff will be in the field enumerating people. This census is going to be different from past censuses. The theory and practice is essentially the same, but we are using high end technology to conduct this census and it is such that nobody can tamper with any figure. Nobody will be counted more than once. “We are visiting households to do direct interface with the household, collect data and in the past, if you are doing an operational manually, it is very cumbersome, but this is being aided by technology and I believe it is going to be transparent and very fast and it is going to be verifiable because we are able to provide data up to local government, up to wards level. So, it is something that you can always verify.” According to Kwarra, the demarcation of enumerations areas had been completed. He said a portal had been opened by the commission to recruit ad-hoc staff for the conduct of the exercise, adding that people recruited will be deployed to work in their localities. The NPC chairman, while speaking on the security situation in parts of the country, expressed hope that the exercise could be conducted smoothly in the areas affected.  ...schedules exercise for March 29, April 2   Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja     The Chairman of the National Population Census (NPC), Nasir Isa Kwarra, has assured that he would deploy technology for the conduct of the exercise this year. Kwarra, who briefed newsmen after a closed door meeting with… In "News" The National Population Commission (NPC), yesterday, said that it would require the sum of N532.7 billion to conduct national census in April 2023. The Chairman of the Commission, Alhaji Nasir Isa Kwarra, disclosed this to members of the Senate Committee on National Population and Identity Management during its 2023 budget… In "News" The National Population Commission (NPC) yesterday said it was embracing technology for the 2023 population census to reduce hitches and make the exercise successful. Besides, it called on those applying for ad-hoc roles to apply to work within their areas of residence to make the exercise easy and credible. The… In "News"