  Barcelona comfortably made it through to the quarter-finals of the Copa del Rey by thrashing third-tier side Ceuta. Raphinha curled home in the first half, while Robert Lewandowski scored twice in the second period, converting from close range and stroking in for 5-0. In between, 20-year-old Ansu Fati added a superb solo effort and midfielder Franck Kessie powerfully headed home. Real Madrid also progressed to the last eight, staging a stunning second-half comeback to win 3-2 at Villarreal. Carlo Ancelotti’s men had fallen 2-0 behind in the first half courtesy of goals from Etienne Capoue and Samuel Chukwueze. But the visitors responded in superb fashion, as Vinicius Jr and Eder Militao drew them level before Dani Ceballos netted the winner four minutes from time. Real are in the last 16 of the Champions League and travel to Liverpool in the first leg on 21 February. Meanwhile, Barca are aiming for a league and cup double and are three points clear of Real at the top of La Liga. Managed by their former star midfielder Xavi, Barcelona are also in the play-off round of the Europa League, hosting Manchester United in the first leg on February 16.   Barcelona scored four goals in 12 minutes - including a brilliant strike from Lionel Messi - to thrash Athletic Bilbao and win the Copa del Rey. Barca were frustrated until the 60th minute when Antoine Griezmann turned in Frenkie de Jong's cross before De Jong headed in himself three… In "Sports" LaLiga champions Atletico Madrid were knocked out of the Copa del Rey after a 2-0 defeat at Real Sociedad in the last 16 on Wednesday. Sociedad took the lead in the 33rd minute from a superb header by Adnan Januzaj, who jumped between three defenders to nod the ball… In "Sports" A second-string Real Madrid side edged fourth-tier CP Cacereno 1-0 in the Copa del Rey last 32 with a late goal from Rodrygo as they bid for their first triumph in the competition since 2014.       Real manager Carlo Ancelotti made nine changes to the… In "Sports"