 The President of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVF), Musa Nimrod, has said the doors of the Federation are open to corporate organisations that are willing to partner them for the development of the sports across the country.  In his New Year message made available to newsmen yesterday, Nimrod said the aspirations of the NVF this year is to make a meaningful impact at international championships as well as qualify for the Paris 2024 Olympics.  He said Nigeria volleyball can achieve the desired goals when major stakeholders are committed to the same course. The Secretary General of Confederation of African Volleyball (CAVB) Zone 3 lauded the commitment of players, coaches, referees, club owners, administrators, sponsors and board members for their contribution to the growth and development of the game since their inauguration.  “Our doors are open for sponsorship and support as well as seeking partnership and MOU with corporate organisations that wish to key into the sport as a social responsibility to the youths of Nigeria,” he said.  “Our aspirations this year includes making it to the numerous and important continental as well as global engagements vis a vis the 2023 African Games, 2023 African Youths Games and FIVB U-19 Boys World Youths Championship, as well as series of Beach Volleyball events which will climax with the 2024 Olympics qualifiers in which Nigeria have registered to participate   The Chairman of Nigeria Beach Volleyball Commission, Musa Nimrod, said the Federation is working round the clock in ensuring Nigeria does not miss the Paris 2024 Olympics.   Nimrod stated this at the end of the National Beach Volleyball Tour (Round 1) in Yola, Adamawa State on Saturday.   He… In "Sports" The Nigeria Volleyball Federation has invited 16 players and four coaches ahead of next month’s Olympic Beach Volleyball qualifiers in Morocco. The second and final rounds of qualifiers will be hosted and organise from June 21 to 28, in Morocco. A statement by Engineer Musa Nimrod, Chairman Caretaker Committee of… In "Sports" The technical committee of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation has suspended the forthcoming camping of the U-18 national female team and U-19 national male team earlier scheduled to commence on the 27th of December, 2020 in Kaduna until further notice.   The development according to the technical chairman, Martin Melandi, is… In "Sports"