The Minister of Labour and Employment Dr Chris Ngige insists, he will not campaign for any of the candidates for the February 25 presidential poll because “they are my friends and they are well known to me. They have worked with me in one way or the other before now.” Ngige, who made the declaration in a statement yesterday, also told Nigerians to disregardpoliticiansblaming President Muhammadu Buhari for the food and energy crisis. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chief said hardship is not restricted to Nige-ria alone but also happening in other African countries such as Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire and South Africa, as well as countries in Europe and America. He urged Nigerians to study the programmes of each of the presidential candidates to determine who is better. According to him, he has worked with the frontline presidentialcandidates– Bola Tinubu (APC) Atiku Abubakar (PDP) Peter Obi (LP) and Musa Kwankwaso (NNPP) and knows them. Ngige said Atiku as Vice President asked the police to reinstate him when he was removed as Anambra State governor. Onhisparty’scandidateTinubu, he said he has known him for a long time and has been supportive. Ngige said: “Bola Ahmed Tinubu, myfriendagain– supportive. During trying times; we formed AC together. I became the known opposition Senator in the Eastern Region under the auspices and platform of the ACN. So, he is not somebody I don’t know.” The minister added: “Peter Obi of the Labour Party is my brother, his local government is next to mine here, my successorandeverything. Iknow himtoowell. Iknowhiscapacity.”  In an August 8, 2021 tribute to Senator Chris Ngige entitled “Birthday in the Season of Accolades,” it is certain the author wasn’t oblivious the title might change were he to repeat the piece by the turn of the year. Reason is that Nigeria is not only a nation in… In "Opinion" Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has announced his decision to pull out of the 2023 Presidential race on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). This came after he participated at a valedictory meeting facilitated by President Muhammmadu Buhari for those members of the Federal… In "News" The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has said he was too engaged with his duties as the Chief Labour Officer of the federation to meddle into security and diplomatic matters, which clearly fall within the mandate of the Nigerian Security and National Intelligence Agencies.   Ngige, who… In "News"