  Paris St-Germain lost for the first time since March as they were beaten by in-form Lens in Ligue 1. Second-placed Lens have lost only once in 17 Ligue 1 games this season and are now just four points behind Christophe Galtier’s star-studded league leaders, reports the BBC. Lois Openda scored one goal and set up another for Franck Haise’s side. PSG were without Neymar, who was suspended after being sent off on Wednesday, and Lionel Messi, who continues his post-World Cup recovery. The hosts led after five minutes when Przemyslaw Frankowski volleyed into an empty net after a rebound off Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma. Hugo Ekitike quickly equalised for PSG but Openda beat defender Marquinhos and fired past Donnarumma into the bottom corner to give Lens the lead again in the 28th minute. Alexis Claude-Maurice added a third two minutes into the second half and – despite Kylian Mbappe playing the full game – the club from northern France held on for a notable victory. Lens drew with Nice last week on their return to action after the World Cup but have won six of their last eight matches in the league and all nine at home this season. PSG’s last defeat was a 3-0 loss to Monaco on 20 March, 10 days after they lost in the Champions League to Real Madrid. RESULT Lens 3 – 1 PSG  Lionel Messi showed off his latest Ballon d'Or to Paris Saint-Germain supporters on Wednesday but the Argentinian had a quiet night as the Ligue 1 leaders were held to a 0-0 draw by Nice at the Parc des Princes. The 34-year-old had been a pre-match doubt having reportedly picked… In "Sports" Neymar set up Angel Di Maria to score an 88th-minute winner as Paris Saint-Germain came from behind once again, this time to beat reigning French champions Lille 2-1 on Friday. With Kylian Mbappe missing and Lionel Messi taken off at half-time, PSG needed captain Marquinhos to equalise in the… In "Sports" Second-placed Lens were held to a 0-0 draw at mid-table Nice on Thursday as they failed to keep pace with Ligue 1 leaders Paris St Germain who won on their return after the World Cup break. Lens controlled the game from the start but could not… In "Sports"