For been too controversial, and outright gross indiscipline, the Kano State Government, has sacked the State Commissioner for Religious Affairs, Dr. Muhammad Tahar Adam, aka, Baba Impossible. The State Commissioner for Information and Internal Affairs, Malam Muhammad Garba, who disclosed this in a statement issued yesterday, said the removal was with immediate effect. He said the sacking of the commissioner and member of the state executive council followed his unbecoming attitude as a public servant holding sensitive office, as well as unguarded utterances. Malam Garba pointed out that the scaked Commissioner was also found to be running the affairs of his office as personal business and even unilaterally reducing working days for the staff of the ministry, exempting Wednesdays and Fridays. The commissioner added that apart from operating without due consultation, Baba Impossible had not been loyal to the government. He announced further that already, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has sent to the state House of Assembly the name of Dr. Nazifi Ishaq Bichi of Bayero University, Kano as replacement for screening and appointment as new commissioner. The governor, the statement added, wished the sacked commissioner the best of luck in his future endeavours.  Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State on Saturday sacked his Commissioner for Religious Affairs, Dr. Muhammad Tahar Adam (Baba Impossible) for disloyalty to the government. Ganduje in a statement by the state's commissioner for Information and Internal Affairs, Muhammad Garba, said the commissioner was relieved of… In "Metro & Crime" Muhammad Kabir, Kano The Kano State government has shut down UMC Hospital in the state capital as punishment for allowing the admission of severe cases of COVID-19 instead of sending them to the designated isolation centre in the state. The Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba said in a… In "Metro & Crime" Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has suspended his Special Adviser on Media, Salihu Tanko Yakasai over some unguarded utterances on the person of President Muhammadu Buhari on social media platforms.   The state's Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, who conveyed the governor’s directive in a statement Sunday… In "News"