Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has disclosed that the G-5 governors will soon conclude on the presidential candidate to support in the February 25 election. The governor maintained that the people of the state know their political bearings and will not play second fiddle concerning the general election slated for February 25th and March 11th, 2023. Wike spoke yesterday at St. Martin’s Anglican Church, Omagwa Town, venue of the Local Government Campaign flag-off Rally of the Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ikwerre Local Government Area. The governor explained that Rivers people have been duly sensitised and told to vote the candidates of PDP for governorship, Senate, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly. He informed that the beauty of the forthcoming election is that it will leave no room for any form of electoral manipulation and intimidation from security personnel. Wike, allegorically, told them to be sure that all votes must be put in one basket in favour of candidates of the PDP in the State. He said: “This time, no army will do anything. No Fakorode will do any thing. No police will do anything. Now, it is one man, one vote.”  Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has lent his support to the stance of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State that the emergence of a consensus presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should be based on justice, equity and fairness. Gov. Wike maintained that he solidly stands by… In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has said that the decision on the presidential candidate that electorate in the state will vote for in the 2023 general election will soon be announced. He said that Rivers electorate, who have enjoyed good governance under his watch and already desirous to reciprocate… In "News" Intrigues as PDP, APC, others woo Wike   FELIX NWANERI reports that the Rivers State government house and private residence of Governor Nyesom Wike in Port Harcourt, has become a Mecca of some sort for politicians, who visit almost on a daily basis to seek his endorsement ahead of the… In "Politics"