  RB Leipzig’s Dominik Szoboszlai scored in each half to secure a 2-1 victory over VfB Stuttgart on Friday that lifted his side to second place and within a point of leaders Bayern Munich.
Marco Rose’s Leipzig, who have now won six of their last seven league matches and have lost just once since he took over in September, are on 35 points behind Bayern, who host fourth-placed Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday.
Hungary international Szoboszlai opened his account in the 25th minute, drilling in a free kick from 30 metres, with the ball bouncing in front of Stuttgart goalkeeper Florian Muller.
He scored again four minutes after the restart, picking up the ball at the edge of the box and rifling in a crisp shot.
Leipzig, unbeaten against Stuttgart in their 10 Bundesliga matches, should have scored again with Andre Silva hitting the woodwork in the first half and wasting another golden chance just past the hour when his close-range header missed the mark.
Instead it was relegation-threatened Stuttgart who pulled one back with a Chris Fuehrich penalty in the 68th, but despite late pressure they could not find an equaliser that would have moved them up from 15th place.
*Courtesy: Reuters  A second-half equaliser from RB Leipzig defender Marcel Halstenberg helped RB Leipzig hold Bayern Munich to a 1-1 home draw on Friday in the first Bundesliga match since the winter break. Bayern looked on course for their seventh straight Bundesliga win after striker Eric-Maxim Choupo-Moting scored in… In "Sports" Bayern Munich new signing Marcel Sabitzer is relishing returning to former club RB Leipzig on Saturday, but he expects a frosty reception on his debut for the Bundesliga champions. Leipzig finished runners-up to Bayern last season and Saturday's league clash at the Red Bull Arena is an early chance… In "Sports" Bayern Munich coach Julian Nagelsmann backed Polish poacher Robert Lewandowski to win this year's Ballon d'Or as the Bundesliga leaders prepare for a top-of-the-table clash with Bayer Leverkusen on Saturday. "Robert deserves to win it, because in my view he has been more unbelievably consistent than any other player,"… In "Sports"