 …I benefitted from new Electoral Act, says gov  Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja   President Muhammadu Buhari Friday met the Governor of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. This was the first official meeting of the governor since he was sworn in as the sixth chief executive officer of the state last November. According to a release by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, the President promised to consider the requests for assistance made by the new Governor of Osun State who was at State House on a ‘thank you’ visit. The governor, elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said he had come to appreciate the President for providing a level playing field in the election that held in July last year. “I had waited patiently for this appointment, and was praying fervently for it to happen. It’s a dream come true for me to see you, and have a handshake. “I am a beneficiary of the new Electoral Law you signed, as it paved the way for free and fair elections, ruling out ballot box snatching and stuffing. “The security agencies followed your instruction to be fair and firm, and I am so proud of you. You are a true father, regardless of political party differences.”     President Muhammadu Buhari Sunday afternoon congratulated Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke, saying by the victory, the people of the state have expressed their will through the ballot. The President’s message, which was posted on his verified Facebook wall, proclaims that “this is what democracy is all about: respect… In "News" Osun State Governor- elect, Ademola Adeleke, has promised to deliver the state to the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in the 2023 general election. Adeleke made the promise at the official inauguration of the Campaign Council for Atiku/Okowa ticket in Osogbo, Osun State. Adeleke… In "News" The Governor-elect of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke has attributed his victory at the recent Osun State governorship election to the new Electoral Act signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking in a Channels Television programme, Politics Today, Adeleke, who defeated the incumbent governor of the state, Adegboyega Oyetola,… In "News"