  Success Nwogu    Nigeria’s crude oil production rose to an eight-month high of 1.35 million barrels per day (mbpd) in December, according to a new Bloomberg survey. The survey also stated that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) production for the month of December increased by 150,000 bpd over November figures, adding that Nigeria is instrumental in this increase. It stated that though OPEC’s crude oil production increased in December, the organisation is still significantly short of its production targets for the month. OPEC’s crude oil production continues to lag behind its designated quotas, and fell in November by 744,000 bpd, its most recent Monthly Oil Market Report showed. For November, Saudi Arabia’s production fell by 404,000 bpd, to 10.474 million bpd. The UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq also saw production decreases for November, bringing the group’s production to 28.826 million bpd—the lowest since June. It was 800,000 bpd below target. The larger OPEC+ group moved to cut its production targets by 2 million bpd in November—about 1.27 million bpd set to come from OPEC members. Oil theft had significantly reduced Nigeria’s oil supply to the international market. It is estimated that Nigeria has been losing about 600,000 bpd of crude oil due to theft. However, recent efforts have started yielding dividends as the country’s oil production has started to rise. In October, an illegal underwater 2.5-mile connection from Nigeria’s Forcados export terminal was discovered.  Nigeria’s crude oil supply to the international market rose to 1.212 million barrels per day (mbpd) in November 2022, according to a new survey from Argus, one of the major oil price assessment agencies and industry news services for crude and refined products. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)… In "News" Nigerian output increases by 5,000 bpd   The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has said that it expects demand for crude oil to rise by 2.7 million barrels per day (bpd) or 2.7 per cent, in 2023. It, however, left 2022’s growth forecast unchanged at 3.36 million bpd.… In "Business" Nigeria has regained the top spot among crude oil producing countries in Africa with the nation’s crude oil production averaging 1.27 million barrels per day in November.   The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) made this known in its Oil Market Report for December on Monday.   For… In "News"