Former Vice President and presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, told people of the South East that he was committed to power devolution and restructuring, if he wins the presidential election. He said the people of the zone have been clamouring for restructuring to enable them have more powers to deal with their local affairs; he assured them that restructuring will be a major policy of his administration as president of the country if he emerges victorious. Atiku spoke in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, during his presidential campaign to canvas for votes The event was held at Abakaliki Township Stadium with a mammoth crowd, which caused gridlock on the old Enugu Road, where the sporting centre is located. He said: “I am committed to power devolution and restructuring. All the South Eastern states have been yearning and have been propagating for restructuring this country because they want to have more powers, more resources to deal with their local affairs. We agree entirely and that is why it is a major policy of our government-to-be, if you support us and if you give us the opportunity. “APC had promised the same. Did they do it? They abandoned the state issue of restructuring; they are very deceitful party or alliance, very deceitful. “We are committed and we mean what we say and if you give us the support, we will deliver.” He promised to empower women and youths to take over power from old politicians.  The Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant, Atiku Abubakar, has reiterated the need for devolution of power, noting that more powers and resources must go to the states for economic survival. Speaking on Friday in Yenagoa when he came to canvass for delegates, Atiku described himself as one of the proponents… In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Atiku Abubakar has once again emphasized the need for devolution of powers noting that more powers and resources must go to the states for their economic survival. Speaking on Friday in Yenagoa when he came to canvass for delegates, Atiku described himself as… In "News" The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 presidential poll, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday promised to rehabilitate the federal roads linking Ondo State with other states if elected. The PDP Campaign Council Director General Aminu Tambuwal promised that the party will restructure Nigeria if given the chance to… In "News"