Troops of Operation Forest Sanity have eliminated four terrorists and recovered arms and ammunition as well as other items in two encounters in Kaduna State. Maj-Gen. Musa Danmadami, Director, Defence Media Operations, made this known in a statement yesterday in Abuja.  Danmadami said the troops had on Sunday and Monday responded to distress calls of bandits’ attacks at Rafin Sarki village in Giwa Local Government Area, Kaduna State. He said the troops engaged the terrorists in a gun fight and neutralised two, recovering one AK-47 rifle. He added that troops had also yesterday, carried out an ambush operation at Rafin Taba village, in the same local government area and neutralised two more terror-ists. According to him, troops also recovered two AK- 47 rifles, four AK -47 magazines, 51 (7.62mm) special ammunition, five mobile phones, one cutlass, two motorcycles and the sum of N206,000.  “The military high command commends troops of Operation Forest Sanity and encourages the general public to avail troops with credible and timely information on criminal activities,” he said.  Troops operating in the North East, North West and North Central regions of the country have killed 81 terrorists within two weeks, according to the Defence Headquarters (DHQ). The Director of Defence Media Operations, Maj-Gen Musa Danmadami stated this at the biweekly update on the Armed Forces of Nigeria operations… In "News" Soldiers of Operation Forest Sanity deployed to tame the insecurity in Kaduna State have killed several bandits and dislodged their camps during clearance operations conducted across the state. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State said the operation took some in some hard-to-reach locations spanning… In "Metro & Crime" A Security operatives have repelled attacks by terrorists, killed two of them and dislodged many of their camps in Kaduna. Among materials recovered from the fleeing criminals are AK-47 rifles, motorcycles and other dangerous weapons.   T his was made known to journalists by the State Commissioner, Ministry of Internal… In "Metro & Crime"