Edo State Commissioner for Communication, Chris Nehikhare, said that an intelligence report has shown that 20 persons were kidnapped from the Igueben Train Station in the state. The state had earlier said 32 persons were abducted during the attack which occurred over the weekend. Nehikhare made the clarification yesterday at a media briefing in Benin, the Edo capital, while giving an update on the incident. He also said seven of the abducted persons have been rescued. “The kidnappers successfully kidnapped 20 persons at the Igueben train station and not 32 persons as previously said,” Nehikhare said. “Out of the 20 persons, seven have been rescued while 13 persons are still with the kidnappers. “The operation is ongoing and we are confident that very soon, the ordeal of the innocent citizens will soon be over.” He said Phillip Shaibu, deputy governor of the state, had a conversation with traditional rulers in the locality on the consequences of harbouring kidnappers. “If kidnappers are found residing or using any of the property in the community, such property would be forfeited to the state government and would be destroyed,” he said. “Also, if at any point, those that use the facility were found to have killed any of their captives, the owner of such facility would be charged for murder and prosecuted along with the perpetrators of the crime. “The deputy governor also told the traditional rulers to increase surveillance in their areas to prevent crime.” He advised the media to work with the information from the government and not from other sources for the safety of the family of the victims. The commissioner also said Governor Godwin Obaseki has assured the families of the abductees of safe rescue of the victims.   Edo State’s Commissioner for Communication Chris Nehikhare, says an intelligence report has shown that 20 persons were kidnapped from the Igueben Train Station in the state. The state had earlier said 32 persons were abducted during the attack which occurred over the weekend. Nehikhare made the clarification Wednesday at a… In "Metro & Crime" The President of Igueben Area Customary Court, Mrs Precious Aigbonoga, was yesterday kidnapped in Ugoneki, Uhunmwonde Local Government Area of Edo State on her way to the court in Igueben L.G.A. Aigbonoga, was kidnapped not more than 72 hours after over 30 passengers were kidnapped at a Sub-train Station in… In "Metro & Crime" Over 30 people are still missing after gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked the Igueben railway sub-station in Edo State on Saturday evening abducting passengers and Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) workers in the process. It was learnt that the gunmen attacked the station while passengers were waiting to board a… In "News"