Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday attended the wedding Fatiah of the daughter of Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubajar Ibn Garbai Elksne, Miss Aisha Abubajar, with Umar Faruk Sidi, the son of the Emir of Lagiys
Osinbajo, who arrived at the Maiduguri International Airport, was received by Governor Babagana Zulum, alongside Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, the Nigeria Ambassador to Republic of Chad and High Commissioner to Lake Chad Basin Commission, General Babagana Monguno, the National Security Adviser, members of state and National Assemblies among dignitaries, proceeded to the Palace of Shehu of Borno for the wedding. Others who accompanied the Vice President to the wedding Fatiah included the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari; Director General, National Intelligence Agency( NIA) Ahmed Abubakar; Chief Executive Officer, NNPC Limited, Mele Kyari and Ambassador Babagana Kingibe. The Maiduguri Central  Mosque venue of the ceremony was filled to capacity with many dignitaries, politicians, traditional rulers and their courtiers as well as other well wishers from across the country. Zulum stood in on behalf of family of the bride while his counterpart, the Governor of Nasarawa Abdullahi Sule, represented the family of the groom. Prayers were offered for peaceful 2023 elections and stability of Borno and the entire country.   Maiduguri, capital of Borno State, Saturday played host to movers and shakers of the Nigeria as the daughter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Vice Presidential Candidate Kashim Shettima, Fatumah, got married to her heart throb and son of the People Democratic Party (PDP) Chieftain, Architect Ibrahim Bunu, Sadiq Ibrahim… In "News" ... approves shared facilities for NSMEs Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has led the federal government reparation efforts to Borno state even as he commissioned projects executed by the State Government and headlined the 30th edition of the National Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Clinic held in the State. Osinbajo,… In "News" The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Monday, said that the reports that Boko Haram elements were coming out of their trenches to surrender to Nigerian troops should be encouraged. According to a statement by Ola Awoniyi, the Special Adviser to the President of the Senate, Lawan stated this in… In "News"