   Christmas and New Year times are a period of joy, happiness and unlimited celebrations for many, especially Christians all over the world as every December 25th commemorates the birth of Jesus Christ. It is usually that time of the year when people engage in sharing of gifts, travelling, visitations to loved ones.  Certainly, year 2022 was not left out of such celebrations. However, as the preparation and celebrations were in top gear for most Nigerians, it was mixed feelings for some others, especially those displaced from their homes following attacks by insurgents, bandits and those displaced by the recent flooding in Nigeria, who are taking refuge in temporary camps in some states across the country. For some of the internally displaced persons, it was yuletide celebrations without colours. A check by Sunday Telegraph at some of the camps revealed a palpable discomfort away from the comfort of their various homes Mixed feelings for IDPs in Kaduna As Nigerians celebrated the Christmas season with visits and exchange of gifts, it was however mixed feelings for many Internal Displaced Persons (IDPs) across Kaduna State. While some of the IDPs received gifts from individuals and organizations mainly Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), others were not so lucky as they celebrates without any form of succour.  In Southern Kaduna, there are few IDPs owning the spate of violence and crisis in the area. At two of the centres located in Zonkwa and Samaru Kataf, Sunday Telegraph gathered that the victims celebrated the festivities without any assistance. However, one of the coordinators of the Centre, Mr Gunner James, told our correspondent that many of the victims had also relocated to stay with relatives while others went back to their communities to salvage whatever they could, especially since this is harvest season. He said that at the peak of the crisis, they were up to 10,000 victims in the camp but over 90 per cent have either gone back home or moved to other locations. According to him, their main concern is medicine and food and called on the government at all levels to come to their aid in assisting those in need. He said RADI was founded during the Kajuru crisis with the objectives of assisting the displaced victims of the crisis that rock the area. “What we are doing today is an end of year intervention for widows and vulnerable people. We shared rice, maggi, wrappers and other materials” he said. Also in Maraban, Kajuru Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp, the African Democratic Congress, (ADC) flag bearer for House of Rep., Hon. Hawwah Gambo distributed rice, clothing and other items to the IDPs. Speaking during the distribution exercise at Maraban Kajuru, Hawwah while sympathizing with the IDPs on their situation, urged them to have faith and trust in God. “All is not lost because God is ever capable of changing situations to a better one.” Festivities outside our birthplace now bitter pills – Abuja IDPs Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) living around several scattered camps within the Federal Capital Territory, said they were gradually losing the taste of life and everything that adds colour to it, like festivities. To them, celebrating any of the festivity outside their original birthplace is like forcing down their throat a very bitter pill. Those of them found in both Area 1 and Durumi camps, said this yuletide season was the worst they have witnessed since their 10 years of stay in Abuja, as about 30 of the legitimate members were displaced by demolition. The Chairman of Area 1 and Durumi IDPs Camps, Ibrahim Mohammed, lamented that the yuletide was not sweet for them at the camps because the people want to go back to their land of nativity. He stated that even with the gift items brought to them by mostly non-governmental organisations, IDPs have refused to be consoled and desirous of going back home. Mohammed also stated that the IDPs will be disenfranchised during forthcoming elections following the inability of many of them to transfer their Permanent Voter’s Card ( PVC). Also Speaking, the Public Relations officer of the Camps, Gola Umaru noted that the IDPs were not thinking about the elections, as much as they were on the need to reunite with their people in their various states. Umaru confirmed that the camps were demolished and many of their members displaced. He however, explained that the demolition came following several reports about insecurity at the camps. He added that most of the people causing problems in the camps, were not genuine IDPs, but those who infiltrated them. According to him, the yuletide was not pleasurable to them, because of their members, who were displaced and had no shelter over their heads. For the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) at the Abagena camp in Benue State, it was celebration galore as they joined other Nigerians to celebrate this year’s Christmas. The IDPs numbering over 10, 000, were marking their fifth year in the camp since they were forcefully evicted from their homes in 2018 in a bloody attack that saw over 73 persons, including women and children gruesomely massacred by the invading militant herders. As bonafide citizens of Benue State, the IDPs were not left out in their quest to also celebrate this year’s Christmas as the state government, through the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) distributed assorted relief materials including over 4,000 bags of rice, over 5,000 cartons of noodles, salt, palm oil, vegetable oil, tomato paste, mosquito nets, sleeping mats, soaps and mattresses among others. Governor Samuel Ortom was however, not pleased with the President Mohammadu Buhari-led governnent over what he called the prolonged neglect of the over 2.5 million IDPs scartered in more than 12 designated camps across the state but given special attention to those in the North East. The governor, who spoke via SEMA’s Executive Secretary, Dr. Emmanuel Shior, lamented the huge humanitarian challenge the attacks has on the shoulders of his administration, stressing that the Federal Government’s neglect of the IDPs was indeed a big burden to his government even as the number of displaced persons has continued to increase. “It is not a new thing for me to say that the population of IDPs keep on increasing because the attacks have not stopped because usually, the attackers who are Fulani herdsmen, this is the time they renew the attacks and kill our people and occupy the rural communities. “This has continued without considerable support from the Federal Government. Benue State government has taken the responsibility of looking after the IDPs, and we said it repeatedly that this is not good on the part of the Federal Government because a governnent that is responsive and responsible cannot abandon her responsibility, cannot abandon the teeming population of IDPs that we have in Benue State and I don’t think Benue State governnent should shoulder that alone”. But that was not all for support for the IDPs to celebrate the Christmas as the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, exactly on Christmas Day, stormed the Abagena camp and springed surprised to the displaced victims by donating N3 million to them to be part of Nigerians and indeed Christians in the world to celebrate the Christmas. Speaking during the visit, Mr. Obi tasked President Mohammadu to immediately come out with solutions to address the plight of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) languishing in camps in Benue and other states of the federation, noting that it was indeed pathetic for Nigerians to become refugees in their own country and urged them to be faithful, remain prayerful and keep all their hope in God. “So I am appealing to the Federal Government, whatever it takes to ensure Nigeria can’t live as refugees in their country must be done. “I assure you, that the next government, as we progress, we will ensure that this does not continue. Today, we are here just to tell you to remain faithful, remain prayerful, keep all your hope in God.” Some of the IDPs who spoke with Sunday Telegraph, including 77-year-old Tartule Agule, expressed happiness over the sustained support of the state government and Peter Obi to enable them also celebrate the Christmas. Tartule said, “Governor Samuel Ortom has not abandoned us since we left our homes in 2018 to stay in this camp. He has been taking care of us, and every Christmas he gives us rice and other food items to eat, so we are grateful to him. Again, what Peter Obi did to us by giving us N3 million, we will not forget about him in our lives. Our prayer is, may God bless him and answer his prayers to be the next Person of this country so that he can take us back to our respective ancestral homes.” Another aged woman, Tidoo Agudo, who said she is 86 years, thanked God for protecting her and her family in the camp to witness the birth of Jesus Christ on December 25. “I am overwhelmed with the visit of Obi to identify with us here in the camp. It shows he is not happy with our staying in the camp after many years that the Fulani people attacked, killed and displaced us from our homes. We believe that if he is elected president in 2023, he will tackle insecurity in the country.” Edo IDP Camp Having had a colourful celebration of the Christmas season and preparing for an equal memorable New year, students of secondary and tertiary institutions at Uhogua Internal Displaced Persons(IDP) Camp in Edo State may face difficulties resuming the next academic session.  Speaking to Sunday Telegraph in Benin  City, Edo State, through the telephone, Pastor Solomon Folorunsho, the overseer of International Christian Centre For Missions and coordinator of Home For ‘The Needy Foundation, Edo’ said, some good Samaritans have made the inmates to have a good Christmas by providing food and other things needed for the celebration and with an equal anticipation for memorable New Year Celebration. The major challenge facing the inmates is life after the celebration, added that more worrisome is the students of secondary and tertiary institutions that would be returning to school without knowing how to pay their school fees. He said: “Life has been very difficult for the inmates but some days to the Christmas, some good Samaritans came-a group from the UK provided money for them to feed on Christmas day. Next day Christ Embassy brought cooked food and a day before the Christmas day, rice man came with some bags of rice and beans. Days before the Christmas and after were wonderful. For a long time, they have not had it like this before. Now, the challenge is what happens after the New year celebration? “We have more than 180 students in universities, a lot of them in private Universities. We need help in the area of their feeding, funding their education, also buying of sanitary pads and other things, but the two major areas, is feeding and funding their education. We are concerned about what happened after the celebrations,” he said. In Anambra State, it was a case of mix grill among victims of perennial flooding in Anambra during this year’s Christmas celebration as some lamented abandonment by both government and private individuals. The victims, however, expressed their appreciation to the members representing Anambra East and West Federal Constituency, Chief Chinedu Obidigwe and Chief Chukwuka Onyema of Ogbaru federal constituency, who provided food items and cash to them. But others claimed that since after they returned to their homes from the IDP. Nothing has been done to salvage their plight. According to the spokesman of the victims from Anambra East and West Federal Constituency, Mr Edward Nnanna: “We have been managing ourselves the much we can but our representative has been coming to help us with food items and even money to help us celebrate the Christmas and New Year seasons” Mrs Adaora Nwoye from Inoma Community in Anambra West Local Government Area told Sunday Telegraph that: “It has not been easy for us here since after the flood but God is in control because some of our sons and daughters who came home for Christmas and New Year celebrations have been helpful as well as our House of Representatives member, Obidigwe, who also came here to see us,” she said At Ogbaru federal constituency which is also one of the affected local government areas, Akajiugo Emmanuel, said that they have moved on with their lives but was quick to add that Hon. Chukwuka Onyema gave them items and some money to assist them. “What can I say but to thank God for His mercies upon us and God used our House of Representatives member to give us the opportunity to celebrate Christmas this year no matter how small it may be,” he said.  How we celebrated Christmas in Borno Many of the IDPs like Mrs Buba Gava and his people were not that lucky as they still celebrated the yuletide season at the EYN Centre IDP camp, Maiduguri. When Sunday Telegraph visited the EYN  Dickson Centre IDP camp, Maiduguri yesterday, some IDPs said they managed to celebrate the festivity in the camp with the support of the EYN church, well meaning Nigerians, the Borno State government, as well as the wife of the Governor Babagana Zulum that made it possible for them to celebrate. In a chat with Sunday Telegraph at the camp, Mr Buba Gava, said: “Thank God, this 8th year we are celebrating the Christmas in the camp, since we were displaced from our towns and villages in 2014. Though we have been supported by the church, Borno State government and the wife of Governor Zulum who gave us bulls, rice and cooking oil, we would have celebrated the Christmas in hunger”. “Although, we have been receiving some supports from government, churches, wife of the governor and well meaning individuals, our prayers is for the military and government to liberate our areas for us to go back to our communities and pick up the pieces of our lives,” he added. Also speaking, the Pastor in charge of EYN Centre, Reverend Danladi James, said: “Although I don’t know what kind of support they got from government but as a church, we supported them with food items, cash and other non food materials for them to celebrate the season happily.” “Even yesterday, we organised a party and others games for the IDP children for them to celebrate Christmas happily like any other Children. Well meaning individuals have also supported them,” Rev.James added. An IDP, Mrs Rebecca Adamu, thanked God: “We have received cash and food support from the church and other well meaning individuals. “We are also great full to the Wife of Governor Babagana Zulum, who called us to the Government House and gave us rice, cooling oil and wrappers, as well as cash to celebrate this year’s Christmas with our children, which have assisted us in no small measure in celebrating the Christmas”, she added. Another IDP, a mother of four, who lost her husband to the insurgency, Mrs Mary Dayda, said they got support of foodstuff , cash and clothing from the Borno first lady and the CAN, especially the EYN centre during the festivity, which put smiles on her face and her children. “We are grateful to the EYN centre, may God reward them abundantly,” she said. She however, called on the Federal Government and military in particular to intensify effort to clear the remnant of Boko Haram insurgents from Sambisa forest and Mandara mountains, so that they would go back to their ancestral homes. Also, speaking a 9-year-old John David said: “Yes, we celebrated the Christmas here happily here yesterday as we had fun because the centre organised game and party for us. We are happy. This year’s Christmas will be in out memory for long.” US commits $5m in additional humanitarian assistance for Nigeria The United States, through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), said it was providing $5 million in additional humanitarian assistance to support people affected by unprecedented flooding in Nigeria. The announcement builds on USAID’s initial support of $1 million in life-saving aid provided following the devastating floods. According to the statement, the unusually heavy rainfall and resulting flooding in mid-August affected more than 4.4 million people across the country. The floods displaced at least 2.4 million people, destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes, and damaged more than 1.6 million acres of farmland. More than 660 people lost their lives. With this new funding, USAID partners will reach more than 225,000 people in seven highly affected states with critical aid, including emergency shelter, water and sanitation to protect against water borne diseases, hygiene kits to promote safe and healthy practices, multipurpose cash for families to purchase what they need to recover, and other complementary assistance to promote economic recovery in communities impacted by the devastating floods. “The United States will continue standing with the people of Nigeria during this extremely difficult time and maintains a long history of providing humanitarian assistance across the country,” said Ambassador Mary Beth Leonard. Reports by Baba Negedu, Cephas Iorhemen, Okey Maduforo, Ahmed Miringa and Francis Ogbuagu  The Borno State government, says it has resettled 2,800 displaced persons at Ajiri community in Mafa Local Government Area of the state. The displaced families fled their homes and took refuge in Maiduguri, after the Boko Haram insurgents’ sacked the community in the past five years. Mustapha Gubio, the… In "Metro & Crime" The Benue State goverment said Thursday that it is working closely with the General TY Danjuma-led committee charged with the responsibility of rebuilding damaged infrastructure arising from armed Fulani herdsmen attacks on communities to disengage over 500,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) wallowing in penury in the camps in the state.… In "Metro & Crime" President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the ambush on the entourage of Governor Umar Babagana Zulum of Borno State, by the Boko Haram insurgents leading to the death of security men and some operatives of Civilian-JTF.   In a statement Presidential spokesman, Shehu Garba signed and made available to newsmen yesterday,… In "News"