 President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Mr Osita Anthony Aboloma as Chairman, National Quality Council. In a statement on Monday by the media aide to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Ifedayo Sayo, the appointment, which takes effect from August 3, 2022, is renewable for a second five-year tenure. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, in a letter informing Aboloma of the new appointment wrote: “I am pleased to inform you that the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved your appointment as the Chairman of the National Quality Council (NQC) for a five-year tenure with effect from 3rd August, 2022, which is renewable for a second and final five year tenure. “Your emoluments and other conditions of service are as provided under the ‘Certain Political, Public and Judicial Office Holders (Salaries and Allowances etc.; Amendment) Act 2008. “As Chairman, you are required to provide day-to-day leadership and direction to the Management and Staff of the Council for effective implementation of the Nigerian National Quality Policy and performance of all relevant functions prescribed for the Council.”  President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Emmanuel Lyambee Jime as the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council. This was disclosed in a statement by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, yesterday. Jime, who holds a Bachelor’s degree in Law, brings his wealth of experience to the new role… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Adamu Mohammed Abdulahmid, as the new Nigeria ambassador to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), for a period of four years. The appointment was disclosed by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo. He said Abdulamid’s appointment was confirmed by… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Mr. Balarabe Shehu Ilelah, a veteran broadcaster, as the Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC). The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced the appointment in a statement issued in Abuja on Friday. Ilelah’s appointment is for a tenure of five… In "News"