 Mexico has brought into force one of the world’s strictest anti-tobacco laws by enacting a total ban on smoking in public places.
The step, which was first approved in 2021, also includes a ban on tobacco advertising, reports the BBC.
Several other Latin American countries have also passed legislation to create smoke-free public spaces.
However, Mexico’s legislation is considered to be the most robust and wide-ranging in the Americas.
It amounts to one of the most stringent anti-smoking laws in the world. Mexico’s existing 2008 law – which created smoke-free spaces in bars, restaurants and workplaces – is now extended to an outright ban in all public spaces. That includes parks, beaches, hotels, offices and restaurants.
There will also be a total ban on the advertising, promotion and sponsorship of tobacco products, meaning that cigarettes cannot even be on show inside shops.
Vapes and e-cigarettes are also subject to tighter new restrictions, particularly indoors.
The Pan American Health Organisation has welcomed the step and applauded the Mexican government for implementing the ban.
The organisation says that tobacco use is the single most preventable cause of death in the world, responsible for nearly a million deaths in the Americas each year, either through direct consumption or exposure to second-hand smoke.
However, some smokers are dismayed at the draconian nature of the new law.
In essence, it means that many will only be allowed to smoke in their homes or other private residences.
Others have raised questions about the practicalities of enforcing the law.
With police corruption so rampant in Mexico, many fear that rather than issuing real fines or punishments for smoking in public, some officers will use it as a pretext for taking bribes.  Stakeholders in the Nigerian movie industry, Nollywood, have called for the immediate commencement of enforcement of the ban on Tobacco Advertising Promotion and Sponsorships as contained in the National Tobacco Control (NTC) Act 2015 and the NTC Regulations 2019. They also called for the setting up of a working group… In "Arts & Entertainments" A pan–African organisation, Corporate Accountability and Public Participation Africa (CAPPA), recently called for an end to smoking in Nigerian movies. The organisation noted that tobacco use is a leading cause of preventable death in the world and a risk factor for several noncommunicable diseases including cancers, cardiovascular ailments, diabetes mellitus,… In "Arts & Entertainments" Smoking is a well-known by-product of tobacco, but unfortunately it also has many adverse health effects, including life-threatening complications and deaths. Experts say enforcing control measures against the products will help address associated problems. OLUSAYO OLASENI and BOLUWATIFE MOSES report Mr. Olumide Ajayi, a cigarette smoker resident in the outskirts… In "Mega City"