 Ayobami Agboola, Osogbo   Former Osun State governor, Mr Gboyega Oyetola has been declared the winner last July’s election. In a majority decision of two judges to one, the state’s Election Petition Tribunal, chaired by Justice Tertse Kume, ruled against Governor Senator Ademola Adeleke. The majority judgment ordered that the Certificate of Return should be withdrawn from Adeleke and issued to Oyetola. The tribunal ruled against Adeleke for overvoting in some polling units across the state. Adeleke, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was declared winner of the governorship election held last July 16. He was sworn in as governor on November 27. Oyetola, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), dragged the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) together with Adeleke and PDP before the tribunal challenging over voting in 749 polling units and qualification of Adeleke. The sitting was concluded 11 days ago after adoption of final written addresses of parties involved.   The Election Petitions Tribunal on Wednesday admitted another set of documentary evidence as exhibits against the declaration of Ademola Adeleke as Osun State Governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The documents were another set of Form EC8As containing the results of the July 16 governorship election of 10… In "News" The Election Petitions Tribunal in Osogbo is expected to deliver judgment on last year’s Osun State governorship poll on Friday. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Ademola Adeleke was declared the winner of the election by INEC and has since been inaugurated. But his All Progressives Congress (APC)… In "News" The Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting at the High Court in Osogbo, yesterday granted the motion exparte brought before it by Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the All Progressives Congress (APC) for a substituted service on the state governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke.   It would be recalled that Governor… In "News"