Delta State Governor/Vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday promised that Atiku Abubakar would fix the economy if elected president. Okowa gave the assurance at Otu-Jeremi during the party’s campaign in the Ughelli South and Ethiope West local government areas. The PDP vice presidential candidate urged the people to vote and cross the one million votes mark to ensure victory for the party. According to him, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has destroyed the economy. Okowa said: “We did it when we came in 1999 and took the country to greater heights until the APC came with their negative change that brought hunger, poverty, insecurity and unemployment. “We were doing well as a nation until APC came with their bad change but I am very much convinced that we will win because other parties are struggling. “All the problems brought into the country by the APC government would be addressed by the PDP presidency when elected. “The APC has destroyed the very fabric of our national development, with insecurity and hunger everywhere in the country. The Atiku-Okowa presidency will ensure that the current challenges facing the nation will become things of the past. “Atiku will revive the economy because the PDP as a formidable political party knows how to revive the economy. “When the PDP government came on board in 1999 after long years of military rule, we restored the lost glory of the country by resuscitating the economy to an enviable status. “Regrettably, when the APC government came on board they destroyed the economy which the PDP had carefully and passionately built.” Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro said it was very evident from the massive turnout of party supporters that the people of Ughelli South had decided to vote PDP all the way. Former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan said Ughelli South remains the economic base of the country as host of the Utorogu Gas Plant but regretted that the people did not benefit from it and urged them to vote Atiku-Okowa ticket for the benefit of the people.   The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has urged Nigerians to join forces with his party to rescue the country from the economic quagmire and insecurity which the All Progressive Congress (APC)-led Federal Government plunged it into since 2015.… In "News" Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have commended the party's presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for making good his promise to pick one of them as his running mate. Atiku yesterday, unveiled Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate for next year's presidential… In "News" ...as Ayu says ruling party opened nation to terrorists, disunity Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has urged Nigerians to reject the All Progressives Congress (APC) in next year's election, saying the ruling party has plunged the country into the path of retrogression since 2015. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice… In "News"