   Almost 200,000 people paid homage to former Pope Benedict XVI during his lying in state over the last three days, the Vatican says. His body has been sealed in a coffin ahead of his funeral on Thursday, reports the BBC. Pope Francis will preside over the funeral – the first time a sitting Pope has led his predecessor’s funeral in over 220 years, the Vatican says. The former Pope died on New Year’s Eve at the age of 95, almost a decade after standing down because of ill-health. Tens of thousands of people are expected to attend the funeral in St Peter’s Square, in front of St Peter’s Basilica, at 9:30 local time (8:30 GMT). The event will be marked by simplicity, in line with what Benedict had asked for, the Vatican says. Because Benedict was no longer a head of state when he died, only official delegations from Italy and Benedict’s native Germany will attend. Other leaders will be there in unofficial capacities – including King Philippe of Belgium and Queen Letizia of Spain, as well as the leaders of Poland and Hungary, the Catholic news agency reports. The Pope Emeritus will be laid to rest in the tombs beneath the Basilica after his funeral, according to his final wishes. Before being laid in the crypt, his body will be sealed in a zinc coffin, which will then be put in a wooden case. Items symbolising his time in the papacy will also be placed alongside his body. During the past three days of lying in state, mourners travelled from all over the world to pay their respects to the former Pope. One Catholic pilgrimage organiser who travelled to Rome with his family to pay his respects described the experience of entering the basilica as “beautiful” and “humbling”. Speaking to the BBC, Mountain Butorac described Benedict as a “very gentle” and “humble” man, who had been like a “papal grandfather” to him. Another mourner, Father Callistus Kahale Kabindama, a priest from Zambia, told Reuters news agency Benedict had been “a great Pope, a marvellous Pope”. But Benedict was a controversial figure who was criticised by some for failing to adequately tackle allegations of clerical sexual abuse.   Tens of thousands of people are expected to pay their respects to former Pope Benedict XVI when his lying in state begins at the Vatican later Monday. He died on New Year's Eve at the age of 95, almost a decade after he stood down because of… In "News" Thousands of people have been paying their respects to former Pope Benedict XVI at his lying in state in the Vatican. He died on New Year's Eve at the age of 95, almost a decade after he stood down because of ill health, reports the BBC. Pope Francis will preside… In "News" Former Pope Benedict XVI has died at his Vatican residence, aged 95, almost a decade after he stood down because of ailing health. He led the Catholic Church for less than eight years until, in 2013, he became the first Pope to resign since Gregory XII in… In "News"