    Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said he is not being “too loyal” to long-serving players who are underperforming at the club but that a lack of adequate replacements means he has to keep picking them. Liverpool have failed to mount a Premier League title challenge this season and are down the table in ninth – 19 points behind leaders Arsenal. “I am loyal, I think everyone should be loyal, but I am not too loyal,” Klopp told reporters ahead of Liverpool’s FA Cup third-round replay at Wolverhampton Wanderers. “You have a good player who did a lot of good stuff in the past and then maybe, in your mind, you think: ‘That’s it for him now.’ If you can then go out and bring in another player to replace him then it makes sense from both sides. “If you cannot bring anybody in then you cannot take anyone out, that’s the situation.” Before joining Liverpool Klopp led Borussia Dortmund to two Bundesliga titles and a Champions League final but left when they finished seventh. “When I left Dortmund I said: ‘Something has to change here.’ It was a different situation there but in a way it’s similar. Either I go … or a lot of other things change,” said Klopp, whose Liverpool contract runs until 2026. “As far as I know, from what I hear, I will not go. So that means maybe there’s a point where we have to change other stuff and we will see that. But it’s something for the future, like in the summer, not now.” *Courtesy: Reuters  Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp says he is not "available" to succeed Joachim Low as manager of his native Germany. The German Football Association has announced that Low will leave the role after this summer's European Championships, reports the BBC. "Am I available for the job after the summer? No," said Klopp.… In "Sports" Jurgen Klopp said he is expecting "something special" when Liverpool take on Real Madrid in the last 16 of the Champions League after last season's finalists were drawn to face each other again on Monday. Real defeated Liverpool 1-0 in May to win Europe's elite club competition a… In "Sports" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp says his side have to go "back to the basics" to try to improve their defending. Klopp's side are ninth in the Premier League after just two topflight wins in seven games this season. They have conceded 14 goals in nine games across all competitions, keeping… In "Sports"