   The US Soccer Federation (USSF) said on Wednesday it would voice its concerns to FIFA over a reported Saudi Arabian sponsorship deal for the Women’s World Cup. Last week, co-hosts Australia and New Zealand wrote to FIFA seeking urgent clarification after the Guardian reported Visit Saudi will be named as a major sponsor of the July 20-August 20 tournament. “US Soccer strongly supports human rights and equity for all and believes in the power of our sport to have a positive impact,” the USSF said in a statement to the Athletic. “While we cannot control how other organisations manage sponsorship selections for the tournaments we compete in, we can voice our concerns and will continue to support our players.” The United States are FIFA’s top ranked team and won the last two editions of the World Cup. The Guardian report triggered outrage in both host countries, with human rights activists and sportswomen saying Saudi sponsorship would be at odds with the tournament’s messaging on empowerment of women and girls. Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has introduced reforms allowing women greater control over their lives in recent years but men still retain a tight grip on power in the kingdom. Veteran US forward Alex Morgan, who won the World Cup in 2015 and 2019, described the potential sponsorship as “bizarre”. “Morally, it just doesn’t make sense,” Morgan told reporters on Wednesday. “I just don’t understand it … I really hope that FIFA does the right thing.” *Courtesy: Reuters  WACOT Rice, a member of the Tropical General Investments (TGI) Group, has signed a sponsorship deal with the Kebbi Beach Soccer Club (Kebbi Fishers) for the upcoming 2021 World Winners’ Cup in Alanya, Turkey. Organised by Beach Soccer Worldwide, the global governing body under the Federation of International Football (FIFA),… In "News" The US men's and women's national soccer teams will receive equal pay under new contracts that feature an unprecedented split of World Cup prize money, the US Soccer Federation announced on Wednesday. "This is a truly historic moment," US Soccer president Cindy Parlow Cone said. "These agreements have changed… In "Sports" WACOT Rice Limited, the leading rice processing company and member of Tropical General Investments (TGI) Group, has signed a four-year sponsorship deal with Kebbi Beach Soccer Association. The Kebbi Beach Club (Kebbi Fishers), owned by the Kebbi Beach Soccer Association, is Africa's foremost beach soccer club. The sponsorship deal with… In "Sports"