Spotify’s partnership with FC Barcelona is birthing another exciting moment as the streaming giant shares new playlists curated by two of the football club’s star strikers, including Nigeria’s own Asisat Oshoala. Spotify continue to bring the FC Barcelona partnership onto the platform creating a direct link between players, fans and the music they love. Fans are now able to listen to Matchday playlists from both the men’s and women’s teams which showcase the music selections that motivate and inspire the players to perform on game day. Following Pedri and Alexia Putellas’ playlists, star strikers Robert Lewandowski and Asisat Oshoala have created their own playlists with music they like to listen to ahead of matches. The two playlists will be accessible on the FC Barcelona official Spotify page as My Matchday Songs by Lewandowski & My Matchday Songs by Oshoala. Fondly known to Nigerian and Barcelona Femeni fans by her nickname, “Agba baller”, Oshoala is one of the most exciting strikers from the continent and recently crossed the 100-goal mark in her career.  Speaking on her song choices, Oshoala said: “I really enjoyed sharing my passion for music with this playlist. I hope our fans will enjoy the music and feel what it’s like to be among the players as we get ready to represent the club. Veteran striker Lewandowski is known for his love of music and pop culture, and many fans will be eager to hear the magic collection of songs that has powered his impressive goal haul and performances since joining Barcelona in 2022.  Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, Kunsela III, the Elegushi of Ikate kingdom has declared himself as the patron of the foundation owned by reigning African Women’s footballer of the year, Asisat Oshoala. The monarch made the declaration yesterday during a courtesy visit paid to his palace by the Barcelona women FC… In "Sports" Charles Ogundiya   Super Falcons forward, Asisat Oshoala, announces the launch of the ‘Asisat Oshoala Academy,’ (AOA) in partnership with Nike and Women Win. AOA is designed to provide access to football and life skills for marginalized schoolgirls in Lagos.   The Academy is the latest initiative of the FC… In "Sports" Nigeria’s Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Feminino striker Asisat Oshoala has been ruled out of action for two months due to injury. Since the start of the season, the Nigerian forward has been amazing for the Catalan based club both in the league and champions league. The club confirmed that… In "Sports"