  Manchester United announced they had signed Bayern Munich midfielder Marcel Sabitzer on loan in the early hours of Wednesday. United were forced into deadline-day action on Tuesday following an ankle injury to Christian Eriksen, which is set to rule the Denmark midfielder out until early May. Manager Erik ten Hag completed the loan signing of Netherlands forward Wout Weghorst earlier in the January transfer window. Sabitzer, 28, who was previously club captain of RB Leipzig, has won 68 caps for Austria. “Sometimes in life you have to make quick and important decisions,” said Sabitzer, who will be at Old Trafford for the rest of the season. “From the moment I heard about this opportunity I knew it was right for me. I am a competitive player – I want to win and help the club achieve its aims this season. “I feel that I am at my peak as a player, and that I can contribute a lot of experience and energy to the squad.” Manchester United football director John Murtough said: “Marcel is a player that we have watched for a long time. The opportunity arose quickly, and we knew that he was someone with the ability and character to make an impact.” United are fourth in the Premier League and are hot favourites to reach next month’s League Cup final. *Courtesy: AFP  Bayern Munich new signing Marcel Sabitzer is relishing returning to former club RB Leipzig on Saturday, but he expects a frosty reception on his debut for the Bundesliga champions. Leipzig finished runners-up to Bayern last season and Saturday's league clash at the Red Bull Arena is an early chance… In "Sports" Manchester United have agreed a deal in principle to sign Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen on a free transfer, according to reports on Monday. United manager Erik ten Hag made the three-year contract offer to Eriksen after the Dane's impressive comeback with Brentford. The 30-year-old is reported to have a… In "Sports" *Red Devils beat Melbourne Victory to maintain 100% pre-season record Manchester United have completed the signing of Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen on a free transfer. The former Ajax, Tottenham, Inter Milan and Brentford player has signed a three-year contract at Old Trafford, reports the BBC. "I still have major ambitions… In "Sports"