   Manchester United manager Erik ten Hag said he could not understand why Barcelona’s Jules Kounde was not sent off for his challenge on Marcus Rashford in their 2-2 Europa League draw on Thursday. Marcos Alonso put the hosts ahead shortly after the break before Rashford and an own goal by Kounde gave United the lead in the knockout round first leg at Camp Nou. Raphinha then levelled for Barcelona when his cross eluded David de Gea. Ten Hag was furious in the second half when Rashford went down under a challenge from last-man Kounde but referee Maurizio Mariani waved away claims for a foul and VAR backed the decision. Barcelona equalised soon after. “I have to make the point that it’s a big influence, not only on this game but on this round,” Ten Hag told reporters. “You can discuss if it’s in the box or outside, but definitely it’s a red card. “I asked the referee ‘why’ and he said ‘it was outside the box and it was no foul’. The linesman and referee were in very good positions to see and we have VAR. “It was a really bad decision and I can’t understand.” Rashford said he was confused by the referee’s decision. “I don’t understand why the referee thinks that I’m going down in that position,” he said. “I’ve touched it past him and I’m one-on-one with the keeper. There’s no gain for me to go down at all.” Barcelona manager Xavi Hernandez said his side should have been awarded a penalty when Fred handled a Sergi Roberto effort with the score at 2-2. “It seems incredible to me,” he said of the incident. “They said VAR had checked it.” *Courtesy: Reuters  Barcelona host Manchester United Thursday in a match-up which has twice graced the Champions League final but this week has the relative ignominy of taking place in the Europa League play-off round. The Catalans crashed out of Europe's premier competition at the first hurdle, while Manchester United… In "Sports" Erik ten Hag has told Marcus Rashford to stay at Manchester United because he wants to transform them into the world's best team. United have failed to win the Premier League since Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013 and their last major trophy was the Europa League in… In "Sports" Manchester United manager Erik ten Hag said it was a risk to relegate Marcus Rashford to the bench for disciplinary reasons but maintained it was necessary to create a winning culture at the club. Rashford, who later said he had overslept and was late for a team… In "Sports"