   Manchester United have raised adult tickets prices by five per cent for next term after keeping them frozen for 11 seasons, the Premier League club announced on Monday. The rise is due to the higher cost of staging matches, which has jumped by 40 per cent in the last five years and 11 per cent in the last 12 months, United added. “…the modest increase in price for the 2023/24 season is necessary to enable the club to operate on a sustainable basis,” the club said in a statement. “We have kept price increases well below the current rate of inflation… Ticket prices at Old Trafford – along with match-day food and drink prices – will continue to be among the most affordable in the Premier League”. The club added they will keep season ticket prices for under-16s and young people frozen, as well as the 50 per cent discount for season ticket holders aged 65 and over. United, owned by the American Glazer family, are currently considering a sale, with confirmed bids from INEOS’ British billionaire Jim Ratcliffe as well as Sheikh Jassim Bin Hamad Al Thani, son of the former Prime Minister of Qatar. *Courtesy: Reuters   The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has asked the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to implement a 40 per cent fuel surcharge to help them to cushion the effects of the increasing prices of Jet A1 (aviation fuel). New Telegraph exclusively reported last week Monday that as a result of… In "News" Manchester United will back manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer with a long-term plan centred around summer transfer windows, according to the club's executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward. Woodward has come out in support of Solskjaer several times, most recently in November when the club released their first-quarter financial results and reported a 20… In "Sports" Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola said the Premier League club knows the right steps to go forward even if he leaves at the end of the current season. Guardiola, who has guided City to four Premier League titles, four League Cups and the FA Cup, will be out of… In "Sports"