The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) yesterday urged the Federal Government to probe the killing of 37 herdsmen and their cattle allegedly by a military airstrike in the Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. In a statement, National President Bitrus Pogu said Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom accused of masterminding the attack should be exonerated from the killings. Pogu disagreed with former Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi’s allegation that Ortom was working against pastoralists by the state government’s anti-grazing law as well as setting up a state militia targeting pastoralists. The group observed that in the wake of the introduction of the law, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) and other Fulani groups had vowed to ensure the anti-grazing law remains ineffective. It said: “More worrisome, there have been sparks of violence among border communities between the two states that often culminated into the destruction of lives and property. “Alltheseorchestratedviolenceareaimedat weakening the resolve and commitment of the Benue State Government to implement the antigrazing law described by the herders as obnoxious. “We find the inconsistent reports on the recent alleged killings of Nasarawa herdsmen as yet another ploy to rope Ortom into a matter he is completely innocent of.”  The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) Sunday urged the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to urgently commence a full scale probe into the reported military air strike in Rukubi community of Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State with graphic pictures of the slain 37 herders and also their cattle. This,… In "News" * Demands arrest, prosecution of Miyetti Allah leaders   *Says their open defiance to laws, threat to national security   The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has thrown its weight behind the Southern Governors Forum for mobilising its members to enact laws prohibiting open grazing by cattle herders in their respective… In "News" The Middle Belt Forum (MBF), the umbrella body of minority ethnic nationalities in northern Nigeria, yesterday warned the deposed Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi not to drag Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State into the controversy trailing an alleged airstrike in which some herdsmen lost their lives. About 40… In "News"