   Onyekachi Eze, Abuja  The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos State, Olusegun Agbaje, for partisanship. Atiku, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Public Communication Phrank Shaibu, condemned the insistence of Agbaje to use the Lagos State Park and Garage Management Committee, led by Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, for the transportation of electoral materials for the elections. He stated that Oluomo is a known member of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council. The PDP candidate said the explanation by the REC that INEC would not be able to use the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and the Road Transport Employees Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) because they had been barred in Lagos State, was not convincing.    Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to use the opportunity of next year's general elections to prove to Nigerians that it has grown beyond partisanship. Atiku in a statement to make this year's International Day for… In "News" Yemi Olakitan Supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC).presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Lagos State governship flagbearer, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu have embarked on a solidarity walk in major parts of Lagos. The walk is spearheaded by the Chairman of the state Parks and Garages Management Committee, Alhaji… In "Metro & Crime" The nomination of the Personal Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Social Media, Ms Lauretta Onochie for consideration as a National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is rejected by election stakeholders. ONYEKACHI EZE examines the processes of nominating of INEC commissioners         President Muhammadu… In "Politics"