 Regina Otokpa, Abuja  Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama has cautioned Nigerians not to vote in leaders based on sentiments, as every choice they make at the forth coming polls have serious implications for the entire country. Kaigama in an opening Homily delivered at the 2023 first plenary meeting of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) on Sunday in Abuja with the theme: “Citizens’ participation in good governance in Nigeria”, urged Nigerians to ensure they only vote in leaders who understand the plight of the masses, know their pains, aches and has the capacity to make positive impacts that would turn things around for the better. He said: “We desire leaders that know the aches and pains of Nigerians; leaders who can transcend narrow religious and ethnic boundaries to work selflessly for the common good of all Nigerians; to lift Nigerians from the condition of strangulating poverty and frustration to better levels. “The theme of our conference reflects the Bishops’ sensitivity to the great desire of the majority out there to shape the political future of this country; a country where as demonstrated in the murders in Owo, Katsina and Minna where Fr. Isaac Achi, was burnt to death in the parish house and many others, and now the scarcity and high cost of fuel and the newly invented scarcity of the naira, have heightened a feeling of suspense and uncertainty. “Before these daunting challenges, we face two risks: giving in to hopelessness and despair or to compromise our values and end up with leaders who were never intended by God nor elected by men.”  Abuja The Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Archdiocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has predicted that the divisive actions of political and religious leaders could fasten the collapse of Nigeria.   Archbishop Kaigama in his Palm Sunday homily delivered yesterday at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Maitama, Abuja, noted that consciously or… In "News" Cephas Iorhemen MAKURDI   The Archbishop of Abuja, Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama, yesterday broke his silence on the ongoing nationwide #EndSARS protest, describing it a litmus test for leaders, which if not properly handled, would portend greater danger for the country. Kaigama stated this during a homily at the celebration of… In "News" Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said corruption has assumed a new level of digital proficiency across all levels, despite the high number of worship places and religious activities in the country. In his Homily delivered during the inauguration of Catholic Action in Abuja Archdiocese at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral over… In "Faith"