 Emmanuel Onani, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Wednesday, said it has deployed officers across the 36 states of the Federation, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to monitor the elections.
A statement by the anti-graft agency’s Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, said the development is “part of efforts to ensure the integrity of the February 25, 2023 Presidential and National Assembly elections”.
According to the organisation, its Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, charged the operatives to be conscious of the interest of the nation and to exhibit a high sense of professionalism in the discharge of their duties.
“You are out on a national assignment and I expect you to conduct yourselves responsibly in line with our core values of professionalism, integrity and courage.
“You have a responsibility to ensure that this election is devoid of financial malpractices, especially inducement of voters. The attention of the world is focused on Nigeria and we must do what is necessary to ensure that we have credible, free and fair elections,” Bawa was quoted as saying.  The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Usman Alkali Baba, yesterday, said 21,000 police officers would be deployed for the July 16 Osun State governorship election. Alkali Baba stated this in Osogbo at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Osun 2022 Governorship Election Stakeholders’ meeting.   The IGP, however, said that the… In "Metro & Crime" The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) has charged the Independent National Electoral Election (INEC) to be circumspect and thorough in the preparation, recruitment of personnel, assigning of responsibilities, monitoring and evaluation of performances of personnel and declaration of results of the forthcoming elections. In a statement on… In "News" In a bid to curb vote buying in next year’s general election, the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has said all government accounts would be blocked early January, leaving only money enough for payment of workers’ salaries and for day-to-day running of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). Also, the Nigeria… In "News"