The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) had stashed N22.5 billion for voting buying in North West. PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, alleged that the money, which was stashed in Kano State, was to swap the old naira notes to new ones in the state. The statement reads: “Information available to our party revealed that this act by the APC which is responsible for the biting cash scarcity is being coordinated in the North West region of our country by two APC state governors, who ironically have been very vocal in lamentation over the prevailing cash crunch.” PDP added that the N22.5 billion in old N1000 notes was moved to an old generation and a new generation banks “where the regional heads were contacted by the APC presidential campaign to swap the old notes with new ones. “Further information revealed that the cash is being warehoused by the Tinubu campaign for vote buying in Kano, Kaduna, Bauchi, Jigawa and Sokoto States.”  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is blaming the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for the pain and stress Nigerians are facing to access the new naira notes. PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary Debo Ologunagba alleged that leaders of the ruling… In "News" Akeredolu is a lone figure, says PDP aspirant Members of the Unity Forum and friends of governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Chief Olusola Oke, have purchased the expression of interest and nomination forms for the governorship ticket of the party. The members and friends… In "News" *Says he's an apprentice The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State has debunked claims by Timi Frank that Senator Uba Sani, APC gubernatorial candidate, has masterminded an unverifiable attack on a rally for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar in Kaduna. A statement in response to… In "Politics"