 Daniel Atori, Minna  Following a gun duel between gunmen, suspected to be bandits, and men of the Niger State Police Command, in which several outlaws reportedly escaped with bullet wounds, a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and four others have lost their lives. Making this known on Sunday in Minna, the State Commissioner of Police, CP Ogundele Ayodeji said the Police on Saturday at 11am received information that armed bandits were sighted around Kwakuti-Dajigbe village area of Lambata in an attempt to attack some communities around Gurara Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. He, however, said a combined team of Police officers from Gawu-Babangida Division and Paiko Division, Military, and local vigilante members were drafted to the scene. According to him: “The hoodlums were engaged in a gun duel and repelled with scores of them being neutralised, while others escaped with bullet injuries. “Regrettably, the DPO Paiko, SP Mukhtar Sabiu and four other Police personnel from both Divisions lost their lives during the gun duel.”  T 1 he Police Command in Niger State have said that gunmen killed a Divisional Police Officer and others in Magama Local Government Area of the state, yestersday. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Bala Kuryas, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna, that the gunmen attacked the… In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen in their hundreds on motorcycles killed a Divisional Police Officer during an attack on Magamar Jibia in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State in the early hours of yesterday. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Abdullahi Rano, was fatally shot by the bandits when he led security operatives including troops… In "Metro & Crime" ... security kill 7 bandits, arrest 2Gunmen reportedly invaded communities in Mashegu Local Government Area of Niger State in a reprisal attack, killing two people in Sahon Rami and burning vehicles carrying foodstuffs. However, in a swift response, the local vigilance mobilised and killed seven bandits in Sahon Rami town,… In "Metro & Crime"