   The Supreme Court on Wednesday temporarily halted the move by the Federal Government to ban the use of the old naira notes from February 10, 2023. A seven-member panel led by Justice John Okoro, halted the move of the Federal Government in a ruling in an exparte application brought by three northern states of Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara. The three states had specifically applied for an order of Interim Injunction restraining “the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) or the commercial banks from suspending or determining or ending on February 10, 2023, the time frame with which the now older version of the 200, 500 and 1,000 denomination of the naira may no longer be legal tender pending the hearing and determination of their motion on notice for interlocutory injunction”. Moving the application on Wednesday, counsel to the applicants, Mr A. I. Mustapha (SAN), had urged the apex court to grant the application in the interest of justice and the well-being of Nigeria. He stated that the policy of the government had led to an “excruciating situation that is almost leading to anarchy in the land”. While he referred to a Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) statistics which put the number of people who don’t have bank accounts at over 60 percent, Mustapha lamented that the few Nigerians with bank accounts can’t even access their monies from the bank as a result of the policy. The senior lawyer further argued that unless the Supreme Court intervenes the situation will lead to anarchy because most banks are already closing operations. Delivering ruling in the motion, Justice Okoro, held that after a careful consideration of the motion exparte this application is granted as prayed: “An order of Interim Injunction restraining the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) or the commercial banks from suspending or determining or ending on February 10, 2023, the time frame with which the now older version of the 200, 500 and 1,000 denomination of the naira may no longer be legal tender pending the hearing and determination of their motion on notice for interlocutory injunction”. He accordingly adjourned to February 15, 2023 for hearing of the main suit. Details later…  Worried by the effects the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s naira redesign policy is having on the residents of their states, the governments of Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara have dragged the Federal government before the Supreme Court, seeking a restraining order to stop the full implementation… In "Top Stories" An Abuja High Court in Wuse Zone 2 yesterday restrained President Muhammadu Buhari, the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and 27 listed commercial banks from suspending, stopping, extending or interfering with the currency redesign terminal date of February 10th or issues any directive… In "News" A Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court has compelled the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to go ahead with the full implementation of the naira redesign policy. Delivering a ruling on Monday in a suit marked FCT/HC/CV/2234/2023; the court restrained the CBN from extending the deadline on the… In "Top Stories"