The National Chairman of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Ralph Okey Nwosu has called on the management of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to follow the path of honour by maintaining their policy of continuous improvement of the nation’s electoral systems and process which they have done so well and committed so many resources to build. The Chairman made the call in a statement where he cited the serious works and efforts put in by the electoral umpire and commended them for conducting the 2023 general elections under very difficult circumstances, but urged them to endeavour to finish well to help the nation heal and democracy to continue to advance. While commending Commission, Nwosu urged INEC to remain neutral and unbiased in its execution of this critical election. He said, “They must not at this time collude with unpatriotic elements and self-serving politicians to compromise the integrity of the commission and our democracy. “The scandalous flirtation between some of its ad-hoc staff and principal officers is capable of discrediting the effort of the commission, the political parties and Nigeria citizens, especially the youths who have made to ensure that our nation takes its rightful position in the comity of nations.” He called on INEC to ensure that the right thing is done in light of the unfolding events surrounding the ongoing presidential election of 2023. “It smacks of gross irresponsibility for the commission and its staff to attempt to mess with the much prized BVAS and servers despite the commitment and understanding of all stakeholders and our international friends.” “The voices that spoke so loudly and clearly cannot be allowed to be drowned by the evil machination of a few, that had put Nigeria in darkness since independence.The unfolding incidents around the many regions are simply unfortunate and near despicable.” Chief Nwosu said the liaison between INEC and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and some other influential persons in Imo, Edo, Delta and Lagos, almost marred the great preparation and readiness of the commission to give Nigerians a quality election that is adjudged free, fair and credible. “The noticeable and embarrassing irregularities appear suspicious to the citizens of Nigeria and to the many international observers who came from as far as the United States of America, EU, South Africa and other countries. “The political shenanigans include the stampede, hijack and destruction of electoral materials in Imo State, and crude fifth columnists’ antics of Governors of Imo, Rivers, Kaduna and the managers of His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu campaign organisation. “The youths and majority of our citizens have made so much sacrifice for this day. It behooves INEC and President Buhari to take whatever steps necessary to correct the abnormalities of today in all carry-over elections and uphold the integrity of the nation’s electoral process. After 24 years, our democracy should be making steady progress. He continued that “residents in Rumuonhwa polling unit in Rivers State, have cried out over claims made by the INEC ad-hoc staff that they forgot the Presidential ballot papers and so they would only proceed with the National Assembly elections. “A woman who was at the polling unit and recorded a video demanded that INEC do the right thing and not prevent them from casting their votes for their preferred candidates”. Nwosu questioned, How INEC can say they forgot the ballot papers when they went to the polling station to conduct the Presidential election. He alleged that “All SPOs in Obio Akpor LGA disappeared with BVAS password for uploading results, only for the CSO to Governor Wike to appear with armed policemen, shot sporadically in the air and then took away all the BVAS machines to Obio Akpor LGA Headquarters. It seemed planned in connivance with the INEC officers and Adhoc team. Concerning the upload of results and the faults that suddenly developed on the BVAS, Chief Nwosu frowned at the electoral umpire, indicating that information from his party agents in the field has it that in places like Agege, Kosofe, Oshodi-Isolo, Surulere, and Ibeju Lekki in Lagos State amongst others where results show that the Labour Party won convincingly, the INEC officials claim that the BVAS suddenly developed a fault. “The developing third force is a collective effort and sacrifices of Nigerian youths following the tragedies of the end of SARS and cluelessness of the political elites, executive branch and legislators. The Nigeria youths and citizens deserve their victory and no wedge must be placed in their way,” he said.   Twenty-five out of 74 deregistered political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) may have concluded plans to work with the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the 2023 general election. The parties, which now christened themselves Coalition for New Nigeria (CNN), met with ADC Chairman, Dr. Ralph Nwosu on… In "News" The African Democratic Congress (ADC) National Chairman Ralph Nwosu denied reports that the party is planning a merger with another party in Ogun State ahead of the 2023 election. This followed the judgment of the Federal High Court in Abeokuta sacking the candidates of the party in the state. Nwosu… In "News" The African Democratic Congress (ADC) said yesterday that the timetable and schedule of election issued by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Area Councils elections would disenfranchise many youths and political parties. INEC had on March 31 released its timetable for the FCT six… In "News"