  AC Milan ended their seven-game winless run in all competitions after a second-half header by Olivier Giroud earned a 1-0 home win over courageous Torino in Serie A on Friday. Milan, who last won a game over a month ago when the league resumed following the World Cup break, moved provisionally up to third from sixth in the standings on 41 points from 22 games. “I expected a difficult game, it makes you play little and doesn’t let you build cleanly,” Milan coach Stefano Pioli told DAZN. “We worked a lot inside the match, the goal then unblocked us from a mental point of view and then we were a better team compared to the beginning of the match. “It’s a small step forward that was needed. We have to look ahead, the season is still long. To make the Champions League again next year is a good result, we have to give continuity in the next matches.” Milan, who host Tottenham Hotspur in the Champions League last 16 on Tuesday, were under pressure for most of the first half, with Torino quickly gaining confidence in search of an early advantage. The visitors had a chance in the 18th minute when striker Antonio Sanabria’s low shot from the edge of the box went just wide. Torino had another opportunity three minutes later but goalkeeper Ciprian Tatarusanu kept out Sanabria’s effort before the referee blew for a foul in the build-up. IBRAHIMOVIC WATCHES Milan flew out of the traps after the break, though, with Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic watching from the bench after recovering from a long-term ACL injury. The hosts had their best chance in the 54th minute when forward Rafael Leao connected inside the box but goalkeeper Vanja Milinkovic-Savic saved his first-time shot. However, Pioli’s men broke the deadlock just after the hour when Giroud nodded home a cross from defender Theo Hernandez. Clearly fired up, Milan went looking for another goal and Hernandez had a chance to double their lead on the counter-attack in the 76th but dragged his shot wide. “With this victory we move forward,” Hernandez said. “When you lose so many games it’s only a mental problem; we are a strong team, all united and the fans are with us.” It had been more than three months since Milan kept a clean sheet in Serie A – a 0-0 draw on November 8 at Cremonese. Torino, who beat Udinese 1-0 last time out, remain seventh on 30 points – eight points away from the European spots. They next host bottom side Cremonese on February 20 after Milan travel to Monza on February 18. *Courtesy: Reuters  Olivier Giroud scored twice in the space of three minutes to earn AC Milan a 2-1 comeback win over Serie A leaders Inter Milan on Saturday, sending the Rossoneri one point off top as the champions' 14-match unbeaten league run came to an end. Ivan Perisic put Inter in… In "Sports" Tammy Abraham scored his first Serie A goal in Roma's win at Salernitana as Olivier Giroud opened his AC Milan account with a double against Cagliari. Abraham swept home a classy finish from just inside the area for Roma's third against their newly promoted hosts. The England striker was… In "Sports" AC Milan's Brahim Diaz struck an early goal which proved enough to earn a 1-0 victory at Sampdoria in their opening match of the Serie A season on Monday. The visitors quickly got their campaign up and running as Diaz, who rejoined Milan on loan from Real Madrid for… In "Sports"