The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) yesterday warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to tamper with the results of the Presidential and National Assembly elections, but to allow the will of Nigerians as expressed through their votes prevail in the interest of peace and stability.  The forum expressed concern over the nontransmission of the results of the elections held on Saturday to the dedicated portal, after the collation of the results at the various polling units across the country. SMBLF urged INEC to let the choice of the people stand as anything short of that would be tantamount to a betrayal of the trust and confidence the people had reposed on the electoral umpire. The forum said given the several reports of polling officers having challenges with the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) device, the delay in upholding the results and excuses of server hitches, INEC failed to adhere to critical provisions of the amended Electoral Act, 2022.   The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to tamper with the results of the Presidential and National Assembly election, but to allow the will of Nigerians as expressed through their votes to prevail in the interest of peace and stability… In "2023 Elections" …says it'll unveil preferred candidate soon The Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has reiterated the stance of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) that the next president of Nigeria should come from the South in line with the principle of zoning and power rotation between the Northern and… In "News" *Says it's ready for Ekiti guber election The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said the results of the 2023 general would be transmitted electronically. This is even as the Commission has declared its readiness for this month's governorship election in Ekiti State. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who released the… In "News"