  Charles Ogundiya  As it has been since the first edition of the annual Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, the eighth edition of the race and the first as a Gold Label event was not left out with Kenyans and Ethiopians dominating the 2023 edition of the race. After finishing second in 2022, Kenyan, Edwin Kibet Koech returned this year to claim the ultimate prize as he breasted the tape in 2:14:06 with Dekeba Shefa of Ethiopia and Kenya’s Bernard Sang finishing second and third in 2:14:54 and 2:17:14 respectively. Ethiopian Guta Alemenesh Herpha made it another first finish in the women’s category of the race, repeating her 2018 feat by winning the race in 2:40:42 with her compatriot, Urisa Kebene Chala taking the second position in 2:40:44 and Kenyan Naomi Maiyo, repeating her 2022 result placing third in 2:40:56. The Nigerian race was won by Gyang Boyi Nyango with Adamu Shehu Muazu and Friday Yohanna finishing in second and third position respectively. Finishing in10th position, Deborah Pam was the first Nigeria female to finish the race. Elizabeth Nuhu and Dimatu Yahana ending the race in second and third positions.  Two of Nigeria’s top elite road race runners Adamu Muazu and Williams Kefas have assured it would no longer be business as usual for the East Africans; especially Kenyans at this year’s Access Bank Lagos City Marathon.   Unlike in the women’s category where a Nigerian has actually broken into… In "Sports" …as Rite Foods reward 11-year-old with N250k   It was another clean sweep for Kenyan athletes at the maiden edition of Airtel Ijebu Heritage Half Marathon staged in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State on July 17, as they claim the men and women race.   The 21km race was won by Hosea… In "Sports" The 2023 edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon will hold on February and this is according to the CEO of Nilayo Limited, Hon. Bukola Olopade. Olapade, a former Commissioner of Sports in Ogun State is the concept holder of the Lagos Marathon Race, and a passionate sports administrator… In "Sports"