The United State President, Joe Biden has called on all Nigerians to go out en masse and vote for their preferred candidates in Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly election. In a statement issued to Nigerians ahead of the polls, Biden said Nigerians, especially the young people, should make their voices heard. He said, “Elections are a fundamental part of a functioning democracy, and all Nigerians deserve this chance to choose their future, freely and fairly. “On election day, I encourage all Nigerians, no matter their religion, region, or ethnicity, to exercise this fundamental freedom and make their voices heard, including young voters, many of whom may be heading to the ballot box for the first time. “While the United States does not support any single candidate or party, we strongly support a peaceful and transparent process that reflects the will of the people of Nigeria.” He expressed delight that the political parties and candidates running in Nigeria’s presidential election had signed a peace accord, assuring that the U.S. would stand with the Nigerian people as they chart a path toward a more democratic, prosperous, and secure future.  The President of the United States, Joe Biden has lauded all the Presidential candidates in the February 25 election for signing the National Peace Accord ahead of Saturday's polls. President Biden gave the commendation in a press statement issued on Thursday by the U.S Consulate General. The statement reads, "I… In "2023 Elections" The government of the United States of America has said that the forthcoming general election in Nigeria is important to Americans because a free and fair election in Nigeria will help create a freer and fairer world for everyone. United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken made the declaration yesterday… In "2023 Elections" Republican President Donald Trump questioned the integrity of the U.S. election again on Tuesday, saying it would be "inappropriate" to take extra time to count the tens of millions of ballots cast by mail in his race against Democrat Joe Biden. While Trump, who trails in national opinion polls,… In "News"