The Presidential Candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi has warned Nigerian youths not to vote any Presidential Candidate that is above 70 years as they have nothing to offer again. He stated this yesterday in Birnin Kebbi, capital city of Kebbi State while addressing the crowd during his campaign visit to the state, adding that the era of old age has gone. Obi explained further that February 25 Presiden tial Election is for the youth while urging them to shun anybody who is above 70 years as they are not competent to address the problems of Nigeria. ‘‘I am ready to support the North most especially on agriculture and minerals resources, we cannot de- pend on oil, Nigeria economy needs diversification,” he said. Obi emphasised that he is the only candidate that qualifies to rule the country now based on his past records as a former Governor of Anambra State. “The state operated with three banks and I left billions of Naira in the three banks when I was leaving the office, I paid all the retired workers their pensioners and gratitude,” he said. Also speaking, the Labour Party Governorship Candidate in the state, Paul Gambo Tasai, appeal to the people of state to vote for the Labour Party as it is the only party that can rescue Nigeria from this ugly situation. He assured the people that if the party wins the election from top to down they would see changes in the country as the government would be for the youths.  As 2023 general elections draw near, candidates, especially those vying for the number one position in the country have continued to latch on to the mass media to reach out to millions of potential voters. One of these candidates who have been leveraging the media to share their vision is… In "News" Our Correspondent Members of the Coalition of Arewa Youths for Peace and National Development (CAYPND), have lauded the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, over his visits to Muslim,and Christian leaders as well as elder statesmen in the country. The youths further described as auspicious… In "News" The Presidential candidate of the Labor Party, Mr. Peter Obi has reacted to the comments of Mr. Rabiu Kwankwaso alleging that the North will not support any candidate from Southeast. Peter Obi during an interview at 'Arise TV Morning Show' today, Wednesday, July 6, 2022. Obi said: “The comments… In "News"