Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has called for an end to the protests that rocked some parts of the state over the lingering naira scarcity. Yesterday commuters were stranded as a result of the rocked some parts of city including Ojota, Maryland, Ketu, Mile 12, and Ikorodu. In a statement by the Commissioner for Information, Gbenga Omotoso, Sanwo-Olu urged residents of the state to shun any form of incitement over the naira scarcity. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu believes there is no need for violence as the Supreme Court is looking into this controversial matter and will make its position known on February 22,” stated Omotoso. Furthermore, “Lagos State has since joined the legal dispute-all in the interest of our people-in the belief that the highest court in the land has the capacity to adjudicate on the matter. “The fuel situation is easing following some steps taken by the government. The government praises Lagosians for showing understanding, despite the pains that the federal government’s measures have brought. Residents should continue to be law-abiding by shunning any form of incitement by mischief makers.”  Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo- Olu, has threatened to prosecute business owners rejecting the old naira notes. In a statement yesterday, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, announced that the state government had joined the suit filed by Kaduna, Zamfara and Kogi at the Supreme Court seeking… In "News" The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state have decided to postpone their campaigning indefinitely because of the naira swap and the scarcity of fuel in the country. In a statement by the Publicity Secretary of the party, the state Chairman, Pastor… In "Politics" Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo- Olu has directed the interim leadership of the Auto Spare Parts and Machinery Dealers Association Nigeria (ASPAMDA) to conduct elections in the next 60 days or 90 days.   The deadline is aimed at ending the leadership  crisis in the market since 2018. Sanwo-Olu took… In "News"