 Unknown gunmen on Wednesday morning attacked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in Ojoto in Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State.
The gunmen, who had petrol bombs with them, also attacked a Police Station in Nnobi, in the same local government area, and a residential building inside the station, where they killed a boy, and injured a girl.
Confirming the incident, the spokesperson of the state police command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, said in a statement that the attack happened at about 1:45 am on Wednesday, saying that the attackers came in four Toyota Sienna vehicles.
The statement reads:
“Anambra State Police Command today 1/2/2023 has reinforced security deployment in the state, following an attack on the INEC office in idemili south, Ojoto and Nnobi Police Station.
“The hoodlums came in their numbers by 1:45 am today 1/2/2023, with four unmarked Sienna vehicles, armed with IEDs, petrol bombs and other explosives.
“They invaded the INEC office, the Police Station and the residential building in the station. Unfortunately, one boy aged 16 years, a relative of a serving policeman in the station was murdered by the armed men, while the other, a female aged 15 years old sustained a gunshot injury. She has been taken to the hospital where she is receiving treatment.”   Armed men attacked two police stations and killed three policemen in Anambra and Ebonyi states. In Ebonyi, the gunmen yesterday attacked Obiozara Police Station in Ohaozara Local Government Area and killed one officer. The hoodlums, who invaded the station about 3am, set ablaze the office of the Divisional Police Officer… In "Metro & Crime" Electoral materials, seven vehicles burnt   Gunmen have burnt seven vehicles belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission (IÑEC) and electoral materials during an attack on the commission’s headquarters in Awka, Anambra State. Hoodlums also torched the INEC office at Ibeagwa in Igboeze South Local Government Area of Enugu… In "Metro & Crime" *Nnamdi Azikiwe Varsity students' hostels also robbed Okey Maduforo, Awka A total of seven vehicles belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and electoral materials were burnt Sunday evening when unknown gunmen attacked the Commission's headquarters in Akwa, the Anambra State capital. Similarly three vehicles and 12  rifles used… In "Metro & Crime"