Speaking in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Professor Lere Amusan, the diaspora group stated that it has become imperative for Yoruba sons and daughters to rally around Tinubu for victory at Saturday’s poll given the wrong speculations and misconceptions being expressed in certain quarters about Tinubu’s personality. Prof. Amusan said that the 2023 general elections “presents another unique opportunity for the Yoruba race and nation to get it right and avoid a repeat of what transpired in 1963 and 1993 when our two illustrious Yoruba sons, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, respectively, were denied the presidency on account of tribal enmity and lack of unity.” “The electoral Waterloo that befell the Yoruba nation then must not be allowed to befall us again,” the group said. Speaking further, the group added, “Tinubu only, among the top three candidates for the February 25 presidential election, possesses the required standard in education, exposure and experience to move Nigerians out of her present challenges and provide Nigerians a new lease of life in line with his campaign slogan, ‘Renewed Hope.” YGC said that it is throwing its support behind Tinubu in line with its core mandate of protecting the interest and advancing the course and aspiration of Yoruba sons and daughters in any field. Insisting that it is now the turn of the South, the group said, “Asiwaju Tinubu may not be the only candidate from the South contesting for the exalted office, but he is the most qualified, most capable, most competent and most experienced of all the presidential candidates.”  A pan-Yoruba youth socio-economic group, the Southwest Renaissance Group has berated the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over the current crisis rocking Afenifere. In a release signed by the Convener of the group, Hon. Olaitan Abdul Salam at the weekend, the group referred to the APC candidate as a… In "News" The apex sociocultural youth organisation of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) yesterday asked former governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, to drop his 2023 presidential ambition to make way for a South East candidate to emerge president in… In "News" The cracks in the South-West over endorsing of a candidate for the 2023 presidential election may widen as there are no signs that leaders of the various socio-political groups in the geopolitical zone are disposed to any form of harmonisation of their respective positions. Leaders of pan Yoruba groups –… In "News"