Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has said that the House would have no option but to reconvene before the February 25 elections if the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) failed to address the hardships Nigerians face due to the currency swap policy. The speaker said the House would continue to monitor the CBN’s implementation of the policy closely following the Green Chamber’s meeting with the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, on the issue. Speaking during a town hall meeting with some ethnic groups in Surulere, Lagos, on Sunday, Gbajabiamila said he was on the verge of signing an arrest warrant against Emefiele following his initial failure to appear before an ad hoc panel of the House. “The House of Representatives intervened on several occasions. We summoned the CBN governor the first time and again, but he refused to answer, because we had many hard questions for him. “It was until I issued the threat of warrant of arrest before he came, and I would’ve signed that warrant; it would’ve been the first time in the history of National Assembly that a CBN governor would be arrested. I would’ve done it. “Many have argued on the independence of CBN, the autonomy of CBN. That does not make CBN above the law. The constitution gives the House the power to issue an arrest warrant against anyone, we can summon anybody, and that was exactly what the House was going to do until the CBN governor came.”  ...says Tinubu stands with Nigerians Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has said that the House would have no option but to reconvene before the February 25 elections if the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) failed to address the hardships Nigerians are facing due to the currency… In "News" Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is currently before the house of representatives ad hoc committee on the currency redesign and naira swap policy. The CBN governor had ignored previous invitations from the lawmakers prompting the house to threaten a warrant of arrest against him.… In "Top Stories" Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has ordered for the immediate invitation of the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika and his finance, budget and national planning counterpart, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed for a crucial meeting over the withdrawal of services by some airlines in the country. Also… In "News"