Manchester United yesterday claimed their first trophy since 2017 with victory over Newcastle United in the Carabao Cup Final at Wembley. Newcastle’s own wait for silverware, stretching back to 1969, goes on after two goals inside six minutes in the first half established Manchester United’s superiority and set them on their to the first success under manager Erik ten Hag. Casemiro broke the deadlock after 33 minutes when he headed home Luke Shaw’s free-kick. His side doubled their advantage after Sven Botman deflected Marcus Rashford’s shot out of the reach of Newcastle’s stand-in keeper Loris Karius, deputising for the suspended Nick Pope. Newcastle attempted to rally in the second half, but the goals have dried up at the wrong time for Eddie Howe’s men. It meant Manchester United were back in the honours after last tasting success six years ago when lifting the Europa League under Jose Mourinho, and also winning this competition in the same campaign. United’s renaissance under Ten Hag now has tangible reward in the shape of a trophy,  with the power to add more this season. The Dutchman’s strong leadership and tactical acumen has transformed them since that nightmare opening to the season when they lost at home to Brighton and shipped four first-half goals in a humiliating loss at Brentford. The arrival of the outstanding Casemiro, the superb development of the combative Lisandro Martinez and Rashford’s rejuvenation have helped to make the Old Trafford outfit a serious proposition again. They were not at their best, but once they took control of this final they did not let Newcastle back in – and this was very much a case of mission accomplished. At the heart of it all was Casemiro, a genuinely transformative acquisition. The Brazilian not only made the crucial contribution with the opening goal, but stamped his years of trophy-winning experience with Real Madrid all over this showpiece with his expert positioning and authority.  Manchester United claimed their first trophy since 2017 with victory over Newcastle United in the Carabao Cup Final at Wembley. Newcastle's own wait for silverware, stretching back to 1969, goes on after two goals inside six minutes in the first half established Manchester United's superiority and set them… In "Sports" Newcastle manager Eddie Howe will return to Wembley on Sunday looking to win the League Cup final against Manchester United in tribute to his late mother. Howe is aiming to lead Newcastle to their first major trophy since the 1969 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup. However, as the 45-year-old… In "Sports" Marcus Rashford scored two late goals to take his tally for the season to 15 and put Manchester United into the Carabao Cup semi-finals at the expense of League One Charlton at Old Trafford. Antony's superb first-half opener gave United the advantage but Dean Holden's visitors claimed plenty… In "Sports"