  Manchester United will play Real Betis in the Europa League last 16 after overcoming Barcelona, while Arsenal face Sporting Lisbon. United beat the La Liga leaders 2-1 at Old Trafford on Thursday to seal a 4-3 aggregate win in the play-off tie, reports the BBC. Arsenal will play the second leg of their tie at home after qualifying as group winners, while Manchester United host Betis at Old Trafford first. The Europa League last-16 ties will take place on March 9 and 16. Premier League leaders Arsenal avoided the knockout round play-offs by topping Group A with five wins from their six games. Sporting, fourth in the Portuguese top flight, beat Danish club Midtjylland 5-1 in their play-off after they finished third in their Champions League group. Meanwhile, Manuel Pellegrini’s Real Betis are fifth in La Liga and ended the Europa League group stage with the best record in the competition, winning five and drawing one of their matches. Elsewhere, six-time winners Sevilla meet Fenerbahce, while Jose Mourinho’s Roma will play Real Sociedad – who topped Manchester United’s group. The eight Europa League group winners were drawn against the eight clubs who came through the knockout round play-off matches, with clubs from the same association not allowed to be drawn against each other. Europa League last-16 draw Union Berlin v Union Saint-Gilloise Sevilla v Fenerbahce Juventus v Freiburg Bayer Leverkusen v Ferencvaros Sporting Lisbon v Arsenal Manchester United v Real Betis Roma v Real Sociedad Shakhtar Donetsk v Feyenoord  Arsenal maintained their perfect start to the Europa League as Bukayo Saka's goal clinched a 1-0 win at Bodo/Glimt, while Manchester United left it late to beat Omonia Nicosia. Saka struck midway through the first half in Norway to give the Gunners a third win in as many… In "Sports" Manchester United will play La Liga side Real Sociedad while Arsenal will face former champions PSV Eindhoven in the Europa League group stage. Erik ten Hag's side will also play FC Sheriff and Omonia Nicosia in Group E in what appears to be a favourable draw for the Red… In "Sports" Manchester United have been drawn against Barcelona in the Europa League knockout round play-offs. The stage of the competition features eight runners-up from their Europa League groups, which includes United, playing the eight teams who were third in their Champions League group, reports the BBC. Former United manager Jose… In "News"