  After a Qatari consortium bid for the takeover of Manchester United on Friday, AFP Sport looks at the Gulf influence at European clubs. ENGLAND Manchester City: Since 2008, the club has been owned by Sheikh Mansour, a member of the UAE royal family. The deal was worth around 250 million euros. Six Premier League titles have followed, with the club labelled the “noisy neighbours” by legendary Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson, changing the balance of football power in the city and indeed England as a whole. But the Champions League remains elusive. Newcastle: Acquired in October 2021 by the Saudi Public Investment Fund (PFI) for around 350 million euros. Sheffield United: Currently chasing promotion from the second division. United World Group, a Saudi company led by Abdullah bin Mosaad bin Abdulaziz al-Saud, took control of the club in February 2018 against a payment of around 5.6 million euros. Wigan: In March 2021, the company Phoenix 2021 Limited, led by Bahraini businessman Abdulrahman Al-Jasmi, bought the second-tier club which sits in the Manchester suburbs. FRANCE PSG: In May 2011, Qatar Sports Investment (QSI) took control of the Parisian club for an initial investment of approximately 70 million euros. President Nasser Al-Khelaifi now values the club at four billion euros. Troyes: In September 2020, City Football Group (Abu Dhabi) added the Ligue 1 club to their portfolio, for an estimated 7.5 million euros. SPAIN Getafe: The Royal Emirates group, based in Dubai, bought the Madrid-based club in April 2011 for nearly 90 million euros Almeria: The controversial Turki Al-Sheikh, a minister close to the powerful Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman, and chairman of the Saudi Entertainment Authority, took control of the Andalusian club in August 2019. According to the local media, it cost him less than 20 million euros Girona: In August 2017, City Football Group (Abu Dhabi) integrated the Catalan club into its portfolio, of which it is co-majority shareholder (44.3 per cent) with the brother of Manchester City coach Pep Guardiola, for an estimated 7 million euros. ITALY Palermo: In July 2022, the Sicilian club, currently in the 2nd division, became the latest to join the glittering Football City Group, which took 80 per cent of the capital for around 13 million euros. *Courtesy: AFP   Prospective new owners of Manchester United have until Friday to reveal their interest in buying one of the world's biggest clubs, with a rumoured bid from Qatar sending shockwaves through European football. United's current American owners, the Glazer family, opened the door to fresh investment in the… In "Sports" Struggling Newcastle find themselves in the unusual position of being the Premier League's headline act at the start of their Saudi-led revolution this weekend. So often consigned to the margins during decades of underachievement, all eyes will be on the club on Sunday when they host Tottenham in their… In "Sports" Portuguese superstar Cristiano Ronaldo arrived in Riyadh ahead of his grand unveiling before thousands of fans at Saudi Arabia's Al Nassr club on Tuesday, after sealing a shock move estimated at more than €200 million. The 37-year-old, a five-time winner of the Ballon d'Or, touched down in… In "Sports"