Pro-Biafra groups yesterday issued “unknown gunmen” a February 20 ultimatum to leave the South East. The groups under the aegis of Biafra Defenders, including the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Igbo Hunters, IPOB Youth Wing and Ndigbo Lion Security Network (NLSN) warned that they will not allow anybody to stop the February 25 – March 11 election in the region. They also announced the appointment of Ndubuisi Igwekani aka Agu Biafra as their leader for the new movement of sanitising the South-East, stressing that “all the leaders and the co-ordinators have agreed to work on the vision and position of the leaders of Elders Council of the Indigenous People of Biafra”. According to them, they discovered that “unknown gunmen” were created by politicians to eliminate their political enemies. The groups said after their meeting: “We warn all criminals in Biafraland to vacate. We will allow them until 20th February, after the 20th of February, the governors will be held responsible for any political killings in the South- East. “Some of those boys doing the killing are political thugs working for politicians and some state actors and some state governors know what is going on in their states. “We have done everything possible to work with the state governors, but we discovered that some unknown gunmen are political thugs under the cover of unknown gunmen. “Some politicians are political criminals and demonic killers in political garments go to Anambra State today criminals have taken over the state, some are working and collecting revenue for the state.” They called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government to obey the judgement of the Appeal Court that discharged the leader of IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.  Steve Uzoechi, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has distanced themselves from Monday's attack on the Imo Police Headquarters and Owerri Correctional Services which led to the escape of suspects and inmates from both facilities. This was contained in a press statement issued by the spokesman of the… In "Metro & Crime" The leadership of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that governors and political elites of the South-East Region cannot decide for the group on self-rule from Nigeria A statement issued by Emma Powerful, IPOB's Media and Publicity Secretary, said: "We are the global movement of the Indigenous People… In "News" ANAYO EZUGWU writes that the asylum opportunity provided to members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) by the British Government may affect the country’s relationship with Nigeria     At a time when the United Kingdom government… In "Politics"