   Chelsea’s 38-year-old Brazil defender Thiago Silva has signed a one-year contract extension that will keep him in west London until summer 2024, the Premier League club said on Friday. The former AC Milan centre-back, who has played 106 times for Chelsea, joined the Blues in 2020 from Paris St-Germain, claiming the Champions League title by the end of that season. “When I signed my first contract here, it was to just do one year. Now it is already the fourth!” said Silva, who also won the UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup in 2021. “I could not have imagined that, but really it is a very special moment for me to sign and stay at Chelsea.” He has 113 caps and captained Brazil at last year’s World Cup where they lost in the quarterfinals to Croatia. “He’s a world-class talent, as he’s proven over many years for club and country, and his experience, quality and leadership skills are vital to our vision going forward,” said Chelsea Chairman Todd Boehly. Chelsea are ninth in the standings and visit fellow London side West Ham United on Saturday before travelling to Borussia Dortmund in their Champions last-16 first leg tie on Wednesday. Courtesy: Reuters   Chelsea defender Fikayo Tomori has joined Serie A leaders AC Milan on loan for the rest of the season. The 23-year-old, who won his only full England cap in November 2019, completed his medical in Italy on Friday. It is understood there is an option for Milan to make the… In "Sports" Chelsea striker Romelu Lukaku will rejoin Inter Milan on a one-year loan deal after a disappointing spell with the Premier League club, according to reports on Tuesday. Inter are reported to have negotiated an eight million euro loan fee to sign Lukaku, who reportedly agreed a pay cut to… In "Sports" Willian has agreed a three-year contract at Arsenal worth around £100,000-a-week, sources have told ESPN, with the move expected to be announced later this month. The 31-year-old had been in talks over a new contract at Chelsea but will end his seven-year association with the club after they were not prepared to offer him the… In "Sports"