The Supreme Court yesterday dismissed an appeal filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seeking to nullify the nomination and participation of former Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his deputy, Benedict Alabi, in the July 16, 2022 governorship election. A five-member panel of the apex court, led by Justice Chima Nweze, dismissed the appeal as lacking in merit after it compelled the counsel for the PDP, Kehinde Ogunwumiju (SAN) to withdraw it. The PDP had approached the Supreme Court, praying it to reinstate the judgement of the Federal High Court in Abuja which voided the nomination of Oyetola and Alabi as the flag bearers of the APC in the election. The High Court, in the judgement that was delivered by Justice Emeka Nwite, based its decision on the ground that governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, who submitted Oyetola’s name and that of his deputy to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), violated the provisions of Section 183 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Section 82(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022. The court held that Buni acted in contravention of the provision of Section 183 of the Constitution when he held dual executive positions as the Governor of Yobe and the Chairman of the National Caretaker Committee of APC. It maintained that decisions taken by governor Buni, including the forwarding of the names of Oyetola and Alabi, to the INEC, amounted to a nullity in law. However, dissatisfied with the verdict, the APC went to the Court of Appeal and obtained an order that set it aside.   ...dismisses PDP, SDP appeals   The Supreme Court yesterday affirmed the election of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State in the November 16, 2019 elections.   The apex court however dismissed separate appeals filed by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and its candidate, Musa Wada and that of Social Democratic… In "News" The Supreme Court yesterday dismissed a suit by a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirant, Timi Alaibe, challenging the emergence of Governor Douye Diri, as candidate of the PDP in the November 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa State.   The suit was dismissed by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour, following its withdrawal by… In "News" The Supreme Court yesterday fixed August 31 to deliver judgements in two separate appeals seeking to nullify the election of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State.   A panel of the apex court led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Ibrahim, fixed the date after all the… In "News"