   Bayern Munich manager Julian Nagelsmann apologised for storming into the referee’s changing room after his side’s 3-2 loss at Borussia Moenchengladbach on Saturday where he blasted the officials as “spineless”. Bayern were reduced to 10 men after eight minutes against bogey side Gladbach, when France defender Dayot Upamecano was ruled to have brought down a charging Alassane Plea on the edge of the box. Replays showed minimal contact, although the decision survived a subsequent video review. “Emotions are a part of sport,” Nagelsmann told reporters. “However, I must apologise for my choice of words against the match official team of (referee) Tobias Welz. “Unfortunately, I clearly went too far.” Journalists outside the room heard Nagelsmann say “that’s a joke, they’re taking the piss”, leaving the room calling the officials “spineless”. Speaking with German television channel Sky after the match, Nagelsmann – who had approached the referees on the pitch – complained “nobody can explain to me (why) that was a red card”. The loss was only Bayern’s second of the season and was the second time in three league matches they have been reduced to 10 men. Bayern will drop to second if Union Berlin beat bottom club Schalke at home on Sunday. *Courtesy: AFP  Mönchengladbach defeated 10-man Bayern Munich 3-2 to add more intrigue in the Bundesliga title race on Saturday. Marcus Thuram scored late to seal the win after goals from Lars Stindl and Jonas Hofmann stretched Bayern’s winless run against Gladbach to five games across all competitions. Gladbach defeated the Bavarian powerhouse… In "Sports" Bayern Munich were crowned champions of Germany for the ninth straight season after nearest challengers RB Leipzig lost to Borussia Dortmund. Leipzig, who started the day seven points behind the leaders with three games left, went down 3-2, reports the BBC. England's Jadon Sancho doubled the lead after Marco… In "Sports" Bayern Munich coach Julian Nagelsmann said his team should always be counted among the favourites for the Champions League but they must do their talking on the pitch when they begin their campaign at Inter Milan later on Wednesday. Bayern, who exited at the quarterfinal stage last season, are… In "Sports"