The Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima on Monday got an endorsement from over 100 clerics and prophets in Rivers State ahead of Saturday’s poll. The religious leaders under the aegis of Rivers Pastors Unite for Tinubu (RPUT) gave their full backing to the former Lagos State Governor after meeting in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Speaking after the meeting, Pastor Sunday Edimeh, the Coordinator of the RPUT said the group resolve to endorse the candidature of the APC presidential candidate for the 2023 election because he was the only person with the capacity to solve the myriad of challenges plaguing the country. The group, however, said none of the candidates vying for the presidential election had supported the Christian community as much as Tinubu. Edimeh, who is also the Founder of One Life Bible Church based in Port Harcourt,  clarified that their position applied only to the presidential election and had nothing to do with the governorship and other elections in Rivers State. Other clerics, who attended the meeting were Pastor Julius Dan of the Apostolic Church Nigeria; Apostle Stephen Ngajaekwu, Christ King of Glory; Pastor John Monday, QWA Iboe Church among others. Quoting from the scriptures, Edimeh urged the Christians to stand for the truth and reciprocate Tinubu’s good deeds to the Christian community by mobilising votes for him across the country. “He has sown only good seeds on the soil of the Christian community and such should never be dismissed. “We call on fellow clergymen and women to stand with the truth at this time. We are aware that a Presidential candidate is playing up the Christian agenda but the pertinent question is before now, how has he uplifted the Christian community? “The choice of a running mate does not in any way, pose a threat to the Christian community.” “Hence let us dissociate from the cold-hearted proclivities of political transition, which seek to orchestrate needless divisions based on religious grounds. “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has not presented any conduct to suggest his non-tolerance for the religious sentiments of all Nigerians.” He further stated that Tinubu had routinely demonstrated competence, grit and tenacity, which had earned him a reputation as a leader of leaders, whose influence and competence had been tested and trusted through the times. “Bola Tinubu is indeed a kingmaker, who has nurtured numerous political proteges regardless of their religious and ethnic inclinations, as a matter of fact,” He added.  Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa   About 100 clerics have declared support for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu in this Saturday's election. In a meeting on Monday, in Rivers State, the clergy men, who made the endorsement under the auspices of Rivers Pastors Unite… In "Politics" Our Correspondent   There are indications that the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike may ultimately work with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to actualise the presidential  ambition of Asiwaju  Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the 2023 general elections. This followed a meeting Tinubu was said to have had… In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as unacceptable and unbecoming of any individual aspiring to a leadership position, the alleged invitation of persons suspected to be fake clergy men, at the unveiling of Senator Kashim Shettima, as running mate of the All Progressives Congress (PDP) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola… In "News"