 *Satellite to cut flight time on all Nigerian routes by seven minutes  Wole Shadare  Nigeria’s airspace safety received a major boost as the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has test run the Satellite Based Augmentation System (SBAS). The agency on Wednesday successfully carried out a demonstration flight to improve on the accuracy, integrity, and availability of the signal through augmentation of the satellite systems with its $8.5 million Beechcraft King Air 350i aircraft. The SBAS is used to enhance the accuracy and precision of an existing GPS system. GPS by itself is not sufficiently accurate to do things like help land airplanes or other applications where there is a need for high accuracy combined with high consequences for failure. Simply put, it means using satellite systems for air navigation. The airlines are also able to save costs through fuel burns as the system has the capability of reducing flight time on some routes within Nigeria by up to 5-7 minutes.    Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) is working to upgrade the country’s air traffic management system, including the Safe Tower Project (STP) that was holistically done 10 years ago. The Managing Director of the agency, Mr. Mathew Lawrence Pwajok, stated that four airports, the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, the Nnamdi… In "Business" The Federal Government, through the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), has undertaken a holistic approach to improve the country’s airspace by committing a whopping N36 billionfortheoverhaulof the country’s air traffic management system, including the Safe Tower Project (STP). Included in the STP is the upgrade of the air traffic management… In "News" The Acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) Mr. Mathew Lawrence Pwajok has said the agency is working hard to develop and publish Visual Flight Rule (VFR) charts locally. An aeronautical chart is a map designed to assist in the navigation of aircraft, much as nautical charts… In "Business"