   Football loving fans at the NFF/FIFA Goal Project pitch at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on Wednesday witnessed massive onslaught, as the Golden Eaglets massacred Young Strikers of Ilesha 11-1. The visitors from Osun State went ahead early in the first half against the run of play as a result of defensive error from the Eaglets, but their joy was short-lived when the five-time world champions equalised almost immediately. The rampaging Eaglets took complete control of the game, scoring two more goals to go into the break at 3-1 advantage. On resumption, Young Strikers were completely overwhelmed by the enterprising Eaglets as their defence crumbled to eight more goals scored by the most successful National U -17 team in the world to the cheering of the fans. Golden Eaglets had earlier subdued P-Sports Academy of Uyo 2-0 in the first friendly game played earlier in the day. It was indeed a great feat as the Eaglets scored 13 goals in two games, conceding just one. On Tuesday, Kano Pillars, former NPFL champions, fell like a pack of cards 3-1 before the Golden Eaglets. In the thrilling encounter, Pillars paraded most players that featured for the team in last season before getting relegated to the second tier Nigeria National League, but they could not withstand the ferocious Eaglets, despite scoring first. Shockingly, Tripple O Academy of Kaduna defeated Golden Eaglets 2-1, while the team also recorded a 6-4 loss to Derby Football Academy of Abuja. Golden Eaglets have played 10 friendly games since they resumed camping last month. The team has won eight and lost two, scored 47 goals and conceded 13 goals in the process.    Segun Bailey ABUJA Nigeria U-17 national team, the Golden Eaglets, will on Tuesday (today) trade tackles with Cote d’Ivoire in one of the semifinal clashes of the ongoing 2023 CAF U-17 Africa Cup of Nations WAFU Zone B qualifying competition.   The Nigerians and the Ivorians have not been goal… In "Sports" Head Coach of the Super Eagles, José Santos Peseiro says he is convinced that Nigeria is a country flowing with an abundance of football talents, after watching the training sessions of the U-17 boys, Golden Eaglets on Monday morning at the NFF/FIFA Goal Project pitch, Moshood Abiola National Stadium in… In "Sports" Head Coach of the Super Eagles, José Santos Peseiro says he is convinced that Nigeria is a country flowing with an abundance of football talents, after watching the training sessions of the U17 boys, Golden Eaglets on Monday morning at the NFF/FIFA Goal Project pitch, Moshood Abiola National Stadium in… In "Sports"