  AS Roma suffered a shock exit from the Coppa Italia on Wednesday in a 2-1 defeat to visitors Cremonese, who survived a late onslaught to claim a spot in the semifinals. Cremonese, who have yet to win in Serie A this season and are bottom of the table, knocked league leaders Napoli out in the last round. Cyriel Dessers converted a penalty for Cremonese after 28 minutes after Roma keeper Rui Patricio brought him down inside the box. The hosts doubled the lead four minutes after the break when a cross into the box was deflected into his own net off sliding Roma defender Mehmet Celik. Roma dominated the rest of the second half but Cremonese valiantly withstood waves of attacks, with Tammy Abraham going closest for the hosts when he hit the inside of the post in the 77th minute. Roma snatched one back four minutes into stoppage time when Andrea Belotti netted with a shot from the edge of the box. Cremonese will meet Fiorentina in the semifinals after they beat Torino 2-1 earlier on Wednesday, thanks to goals from Luka Jovic and Jonathan Ikone. The semifinals will be played over two legs. Inter Milan, who knocked out Atalanta on Tuesday, will play the winner of the other quarterfinal between Juventus and Lazio. *Courtesy: Reuters   Defending champions Inter Milan reached the semifinals of the Coppa Italia on Tuesday with a 1-0 win over Atalanta thanks to a second-half goal from Matteo Darmian. Simone Inzaghi's side will now face the winners of Thursday's match between Juventus and Lazio for a place in… In "Sports" Paulo Dybala shot Roma into a potential Italian Cup quarterfinal clash with Serie A leaders Napoli with the only goal in Thursday's 1-0 win over second-tier Genoa. Substitute Dybala struck in the 64th minute at a packed Stadio Olimpico in Rome after skipping past the Genoa defence and rifling… In "Sports" Cremonese will play Roma in the quarterfinals of the Italian Cup after Serie A's bottom side battled to a stunning 5-4 penalty shootout win over league leaders Napoli on Tuesday. Felix Afena-Gyan struck the winning spot-kick under a torrential downpour in Naples to send Cremonese through after the… In "Sports"