 Arsenal scored twice in stoppage time to win a six-goal thriller at Aston Villa and return to the top of the Premier League. Jorginho’s shot came off the crossbar and bounced in off Villa goalkeeper Emi Martinez to put Arsenal 3-2 up, before substitute Gabriel Martinelli raced clear to score as Villa chased an equalizer. Villa twice led, through Ollie Watkins and Philippe Coutinho, in the first half. They were pegged back by goals from Bukayo Saka and Oleksandr Zinchenko either side of the break. Victory ended Arsenal’s run of three games without a win and took them back above Manchester City after losing to them in midweek. Manchester City missed the opportunity to return to the top of the Premier League as Chris Wood’s late goal earned Nottingham Forest at home. Bernardo Silva’s rocket from 20 yards opened the scoring and the visitors missed chances in abundance to put the game to bed. Erling Haaland volleyed against the crossbar and ballooned the rebound over the top after Aymeric Laporte’s header was brilliantly saved by Forest keeper Keylor Navas. Morgan Gibbs-White’s fizzed cross was tapped in at the far post in the 84th minute for Wood’s first Forest goal. The draw extended Forest’s unbeaten home run to eight games and dealt a blow to City’s title hopes after Arsenal returned to the top with a 4-2 comeback win against Aston Villa earlier on Saturday. Everton deservedly collected a monumental victory over fellow Premier League strugglers Leeds to climb out of the relegation zone and send their opponents into trouble. Seamus Coleman scored the winning goal in the second half owing to an error from goalkeeper Illan Meslier, who failed to cover his front post, allowing the skipper’s effort to arrow in. Victory was Everton’s second in three games under new manager Sean Dyche, lifting them up to 16th place, while Leeds drop to 19th and remain without a win under interim boss Michael Skubala. Meanwhile, Chelsea’s poor form under manager Graham Potter continued as a trademark free-kick from James Ward-Prowse earned the Premier League’s bottom club Southampton a surprise victory at Stamford Bridge.  *De Bruyne misses penalty in Etihad stalemate Ollie Watkins scored twice as Aston Villa claimed an impressive victory at Arsenal and moved up to sixth in the Premier League. The visitors took the lead midway through the first half when Bukayo Saka turned Matt Targett's cross into his own net.… In "Sports" *Maddison, Barnes win it for Leicester at Aston Villa *West Ham beat Tottenham Manchester City extended their winning run to 18 games as they continued their impressive march towards the Premier League title with victory at Arsenal. The visitors have not dropped a point since December 15 and looked confident… In "Sports" Arsenal scored twice in stoppage time to win a six-goal thriller at Aston Villa and return to the top of the Premier League. Villa twice went ahead through Ollie Watkins and Philippe Coutinho in the first half, reports the BBC. They were pegged back by goals from Bukayo… In "Sports"