Combined personnel of the Nigerian Army and the Police have commenced a show of force at major cities and flashpoints in Anambra state ahead of the general election in the area. Similarly, a deployment of armoured military tanks was also spotted in Awka and other towns in the area and was being excited by platoon of solders. Some of the major flashpoints include police stations and area commands in Anambra South and North Senatorial districts which have been witnessing attacks by gunmen.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices have also been placed under heavy security beef-up to avert possible attacks by hoodlums. According to a release by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, the show of force is an indication of the preparedness of the operatives for the coming election. The police, military and other security agencies yesterday embarked on a show of force in demonstration of readiness and the assurance of protection of lives and properties, maintenance of law and order by improved personnel deployment and positioning of security forces to attend to security issues ahead, during and after the general election in the state. The show of force is led by the Commissioner of Police,*CP Echeng Echeng, has the Army, Navy, DSS, the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety, Immigration Service, and other sister agencies in the convoy.  Former Minister of Communications, Major- General Tajudeen Olanrewaju (retd), has urged the heads of the various security agencies to give Lagos State special attention, noting that the emerging megacity has many flashpoints to warrant focused attention of the military and other security services during the forthcoming elections. General Olanrewaju, former… In "News" Soldiers have been deployed to beef up security at the Nigerian Correctional Service Maximum Security Custodial Centre, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) branch and other flashpoints in Abeokuta, Ogun State.   This followed the wanton destruction of lives and properties as a result of the nationwide #EndSARS protests. A… In "News" Stern-looking security personnel yesterday took over major flashpoints in Asaba, the Delta State capital, and the oil city, Warri, to forestall the breakdown of law and order during the memorial celebration of the #EndSARS protest. For fear of the unknown, the popular Ekumeku Flyover, nicknamed Inter-Bau Roundabout, leading to major… In "News"