President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the newly elected President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Joe Ajaero, to be a partner in progress. The President, who congratulated the new Labour leader on his emergence, also lauded the National Executive Committee of the NLC on the success of the congress that produced the new leadership. According to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, Buhari said “After many years of hard work and struggles, the selflessness with which Ajaero dedicated himself today paid off. “His journey in the Labour movement has been a remarkable one, marked by many important milestones. “This victory that emerged from a rancor-free congress,” the President noted, “is a mark of the strength of democracy in the nation’s labour movement. “Today, as he rises to the highest position in the NLC, it is our hope and desire that he will use the position to write a new chapter of progress for all workers and the labour movement in the country and the continent in general. The President also expressed the hope that Ajaero and his team would continue to be partners to the administration in fulfilling the aspirations of Nigerian people.  Five years after a deepened rift, the United Labour Congress (ULC) led by Comrade Joe Ajaero, has settled all existing differences and reintegrated into the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). The collapsed Union, ULC which was made up of some affiliate unions, had broken out of the NLC in 2015 due… In "News" Comrade Joe Ajaero has emerged as the new National President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), following a consensus arrangement by delegates participating in the 13th Quadrennial National Delegates Conference of Congress. Ajaero, who was the General Secretary of the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), succeeds Comrade Ayuba Wabba,… In "News" Deputy President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Joe Ajaero, has asked the Federal Government not to increase electricity tariff. Ajaero spoke on Kakaaki, AIT’s breakfast show on Tuesday. A statement by Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) saying the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) had approved an increase in… In "News"