No cracks in my relationship with President, says APC candidate President Muhammadu Buhari has assured the All Progressives Congress (APC) party supporters that he would continue to campaign for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the ‘next president of Nigeria.’ The President gave this assurance before a mammoth crowd at the presidential campaign rally in Lafia square, where he endorsed the candidature of the Presidential candidate, Tinubu; his running mate, Kashim Shettima and the second-term bid of Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State. According to a release by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President thanked party supporters for defying the hot weather and standing in the sun for hours to express their support for the party’s flag bearers in the forthcoming presidential and gubernatorial elections. ‘‘I congratulate and assure you that God willing, we are going to win through and through. As Tinubu said in his speech, I have known him for more than 20 years, and I will continue to campaign for Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He is a committed Nigerian and I believe he will give all his best to Nigeria. ‘‘Also vote for Abdullahi Sule for a second and final term as governor’’, he said. The APC presidential candidate thanked the President for being the ‘‘poster boy’’ of his campaign, fighting and working hard for the survival of Nigeria. ‘‘Nigeria is surviving as a nation. Because of constitutional democracy, we would have asked you to continue but you said no, you are going back to Daura, your hometown’’ he said. Tinubu also used the occasion to chide those insinuating that he was having a frosty relationship with the President, saying: ‘‘Those who think there are cracks in our friendship and relationship would continue to be disappointed and have their short-term joy limited. Ours is not about the individual but about nation building, honesty, integrity and character,’’ he said. The APC presidential candidate, who compared President Buhari to great and courageous leaders like Abraham Lincoln, praised him for remaining focused in the midst of distractions. He promised that under his presidency, Nigeria will recover from all challenges because of the courage and resilience of its citizens. Tinubu added that his administration would prioritize agriculture, build the nation’s mineral resources and create wealth for Nigerians. ‘‘We will work hard. We promise you that your children and grandchildren will have no regret about this nation and ourselves,’’ he said.   President Muhammadu Buhari has assured the All Progressives Congress (APC) party supporters that he would continue to campaign for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the ‘next president of Nigeria.’ The President gave this assurance before a mammoth crowd at the presidential campaign rally in Lafia square, where he endorsed the candidature… In "Politics" Musa Pam, Jos The Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase has assured Nigerians and APC supporters that all security arrangements have been concluded to ensure the safety all the dignitaries who will participate in the part's Presidential Campaign Flag-off in Jos, the Plateau State capital… In "News" The Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Ahmed Bola Tinubu has promised to end insecurity, provide good governance and economic development of Nigeria if elected president come 2023. Tinubu said he was grateful to God and APC for emerging the Presidential Candidate of the party, saying that… In "News"