The Police Service Commission (PSC) has withdrawn the appointment of Naja’atu Muhammad as one of the commissioners to monitor the conduct of police officers during the general election. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) had protested against the appointment of the PSC North West coordinator, a former Director of  the Council, because of her attacks on the presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. A retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Bawa Lawal has since been announced as Naja’atu’s replacement. In a statement, yesterday spokesman for the Commission Ikechukwu Ani said: “The Commission has, however, decided to mandate Assistant Inspector- General of Police, Bawa Lawal (rtd), who is from the same geopolitical zone as Commisists  sioner Naja’atu to take over the coordination of the monitoring of Police Conduct in the zone. “The Commission will always be sensitive to the wishes of Nigerians and will continue to contribute its quota to the sustenance of the nation’s democracy. “It wishes to restate its commitment to a free and fair election where the police as the lead agency in internal security which includes election policing will discharge its duties according to the dictates of the law.”   The Police Service Commission (PSC) has said that it did not endorse the tenure “elongation” said to have been granted to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, by President Muhammadu Buhari. While answering questions from journalists on whether or not the police chief will retire on March 1, when… In "News" ...appoints 2 new DIGs The Police Service Commission (PSC), Friday, said it has approved the promotion of four hundred and seventeen (417) senior police officers to the next ranks. The commission also appointed two new Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs) of Police to fill existing vacancies. Head of Press and Public… In "News" The Police Service Commission( PSC), yesterday, said it has approved the appointmentof threeAssistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) to the rank of Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG). The Commission added that a total of 1, 040 officers, including Assistant Commissionersof Police(ACPs), aswell as Chief Superintendents of Police (CSPs), were promoted to… In "News"