   A powerful earthquake has hit a wide area in south-eastern Turkey, near the Syrian border, killing more than 100 people and trapping many others. The US Geological Survey said the 7.8 magnitude tremor struck at 04:17 local time (01:17 GMT) at a depth of 17.9km (11 miles) near the city of Gaziantep, reports the BBC. In Turkey, officials confirmed more than 76 deaths so far and 10 cities hit, including Diyarbakir. In Syria, more than 50 people were killed, state media reported. There are fears the death toll will rise sharply in the coming hours. Many buildings have collapsed and rescue teams have been deployed to search for survivors under huge piles of rubble. Turkish Interior Minister Suleymon Soylu said 10 cities were affected: Gaziantep, Kahramanmaras, Hatay, Osmaniye, Adiyaman, Malatya, Sanliurfa, Adana, Diyarbakir and Kilis. In Malatya province, north-east of Gaziantep, at least 23 people were killed, local officials said. In Sanliurfa, to the east, there were 17 deaths. And more deaths were reported in Diyarbakir and Osmaniye. A BBC Turkish correspondent in Diyarbakir, reported that a shopping mall in the city collapsed. The tremor was also felt in Lebanon and Cyprus. “I was writing something and just all of a sudden the entire building started shaking and yes I didn’t really know what to feel,” Mohamad El Chamaa, a student in the Lebanese capital Beirut, told the BBC. “I was right next to the window so I was just scared that they might shatter. It went on for four-five minutes and it was pretty horrific. It was mind-blowing,” he said. Rushdi Abualouf, a BBC producer in the Gaza Strip, said there was about 45 seconds of shaking in the house he was staying in. Turkish seismologists estimated the strength of the quake to be 7.4 magnitude. They said that a second tremor hit the region just minutes later. Turkey lies in one of the world’s most active earthquake zones. In 1999, more than 17,000 people were killed after a powerful tremor rocked the north-west of the country.   At least 32 people have been killed in two separate events in Turkey when vehicles crashed into first responders following earlier accidents. A bus hit the scene of a road crash near Gaziantep on Saturday morning, killing 16 people and injuring 21, reports the BBC. Hours later a truck… In "News" The death toll from Friday's earthquake in the Aegean Sea has reached 100, with the deaths of 98 people in Turkey's western city of Izmir, disaster authorities said. Two teenagers also died on the Greek island of Samos, authorities said. It was the deadliest quake to hit Turkey in… In "News" A powerful earthquake has struck the Caribbean nation of Haiti, killing at least 304 people and injuring more than 1,800. The 7.2-magnitude quake hit the west of the country on Saturday morning, toppling and damaging buildings including churches and hotels, reports the BBC. The prime minister said there was… In "News"