Nigerian Nollywood star, Grace Agbo, has given reason she is passionate about her acting career. The Benue State-born romantic actress, who is also a staff of the Federal Fire Service, disclosed that she cannot thank God enough for bringing her into limelight through acting. She added that she is very happy with and passionate about her job. “I’m very elated doing what God has called me for. Acting is a natural gift from God to me hence each time I see myself doing it, it makes me happy and I’m passionate about it. It has given me attention wherever I go most especially when people see me during my official assignment as a fire fighter.” She said. Speaking further, Agbo disclosed that a lot of her teeming fans still wonder how she has been able to combine acting alongside her official duty as a fire fighter considering the hazard involved in the job. “Actually handling fire is really challenging, but by the grace of God, I’m able to combine it successfully with acting. Presently, I’m an Assistant Superintendent of Fire1 (ASF1) at the Federal Fire Service Headquarters, Abuja and I enjoy doing my job very well. I’m serving in the Special Duty Unit under the Inspectorate, Investigation and Enforcement (IIE) Department of the Service.” It is pertinent to note that Agbo has featured in movies that include Haunted, Do We Call It Love, Wounded Heart, Village Don, Deadly Desire, Ada-Ide-Ichaka and Palace. She has equally acted alongside top industry players that include Ini-Edo, Genevieve Nnaji, and Tonto Dike.  Ahead of Monday’s resumption of duty, after four months of lockdown, the Enugu State government has reminded all civil servants in the state of the need to adhere strictly to the laid down preventive measures for containment of the spread of COVID-19.   The reminder was made by the state’s… In "News" The ongoing World ParaVollyey Level I Course for African Referees and Coaches has bee. described as a lifetime opportunity for the participants to expose themselves to the latest trends in the game. The Level 1 Course, the first development course for Referees and Coaches in Africa, is holding at the… In "Sports" The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Mohammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has called for reintroduction of History as a subject in the curriculum of Nigerian schools. The sultan made the call at the commemoration of the 4th Anniversary of His Royal Highness, Alhaji Abdullahi Amegwa Agbo III, as the 34th Osana. The occasion… In "Islam"