The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Ekiti State Collation Officer for Saturday’s presidential poll, Prof. Akeem Lasisi has announced the final result of the presidential election in the state after collating the results from the 16 Local Government Areas. The results from the 16 LGAs were presented by the Local Government Collation Officers for different councils. Lasisi who is also the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Health Sciences, Ila Orangun, Osun State said the APC scored a total of 201,494 votes across the state to defeat other candidates. He revealed that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) scored 89,554 votes while Labour Party (LP) garnered 11,397 votes just as New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) got 264 votes in the state. “Ekiti has a total of 988,923 registered voters, out of this, the number of accredited voters is 315,058. “Total valid votes, 308,171, the number of rejected votes was 6,301 and total votes cast 314,470. “This is the final result of the presidential election in Ekiti State”, he said.  ANAYO EZUGWU x-rays some of the major political activities that characterised 2022, which includes governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun states as well as the primaries of the political parties, among others   As expected, the year 2022 was a defining year for Nigerians, especially the political parties and politicians… In "Politics" The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State on Saturday won all the councillorship positions in the Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA). The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) announced that APC won the seven awards in the Ojokoro LCDA. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports… In "Metro & Crime" The Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has won the election at the former governor Ayodele Fayose polling unit in Afao-Ekiti, Irepodun/Ifelodun local government area of Ekiti State Tinubu garnered 154 votes in St. David Pry School, Afao Ekiti, Unit 001 while the People’s Democratic… In "2023 Elections"