As the battle for the 2023 presidential election is on the marrow, the former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has said there is nothing like the Igbo presidency as widely propagated by political analysts. The Senate Chief Whip who spoke on Arise TV’s Morning Show on Tuesday said there can only be a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction, not an Igbo Presidency. Sen. Kalu’s response comes on the heels of a series of calls by some political elites from the South-Eastern part of the country to support Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, who they believe will unite Nigeria since he is from the Igbo extraction. Speaking further, the former governor faulted claims of in-fighting in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) following the Naira redesign policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Meanwhile, the former governor in an exclusive interview with Channels Television on Monday, February 20, lamented the scarcity of the new naira notes owing to the currency redesign policy of the CBN. The lawmaker, however, said the policy is right but blamed the timing and other shortfalls of the CBN towards the policy.  Please don’t quarrel with Igbo politicians antagonizing Mr. Peter Obi, Labour Party presidential candidate. They are not to blame! Rather pity them and blame the socio-political culture that produced them. And that culture is a vicious culture of conquest, subjugation and enslavement. The Igbo survived the British conquest, subjugation and… In "Opinion" Former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abia State and Abia North Senatorial aspirant, Mr. Fabian Okonkwo Azubuike has said the Senate Chief Whip and Senator Representing Abia North, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, is best candidate for the Presidential ticket of APC. Azubuike, who stated this yesterday to journalists… In "News" The Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has debunked the news making the rounds, ascribing to him to have said the Igbo should forget the presidency in 2023. A local online news outlet had reported that the former governor of Abia State had called on the people of the… In "News"