    Manchester United made fewer signings in the January transfer window compared to other top teams in the Premier League but manager Erik ten Hag said he is confident the Old Trafford club have depth in their squad. United, who are fourth in the league, signed Jack Butland, Wout Weghorst and Marcel Sabitzer all on loan, while Chelsea spent nearly 300 million pounds ($362 million) on eight players, leaders Arsenal made four signings and third-placed Newcastle United signed five players. “We have formed and constructed a squad, we invest also in the summer. From that point on, it is about developing the team and it has to come on the training ground, it has to come in the matches, that we develop the team,” Ten Hag told reporters. “That is the advantage of having so many matches, that you can work on that and you don’t have to wait so long (for the next one)… There is a limit to every player but we have depth in our squad. “Maybe not as far as other teams, but that has something to do with your approach to it and how you do your load management. If you do that right, I think you can go far.” The Dutchman said he does not prefer having a huge squad at his disposal because “that also gives you problems”. “As I said before, in the frontline until now, we have some problems in quantity. Not in quality but with the availability of the players, you definitely need numbers there if you want to cover all the games. If you want to be successful,” he added. Ten Hag’s side are fourth with 39 points after 20 games, behind Newcastle on goal difference. They host Crystal Palace later on Saturday. *Courtesy: Reuters  Manchester United have confirmed that Erik ten Hag will be their new manager on contract to June 2025, with the option to extend for a year. The Dutchman will leave his role as Ajax head coach and begin his Old Trafford tenure after the end of this season. Ten Hag… In "Sports" Former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke said Tuesday that new coach Erik ten Hag must perform "major surgery" at the club to get them back to the top. Yorke, who won three Premier League titles, the Champions League and the FA Cup with United, spent the last fortnight… In "Sports" Cristiano Ronaldo's shock demand to leave Manchester United has thrown Erik ten Hag's plans into disarray as he scrambles to contain the fall-out from the Portugal star's power play. Just one year after returning to United in a blockbuster move from Juventus, Ronaldo has already grown so disenchanted that… In "Sports"