   Nigeria’s central bank may delay repayments of foreign exchange to domestic lenders as an acute shortage of dollars in Africa’s largest economy forces the regulator to ration hard currency, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Rated commercial lenders in the West African nation have placed about $10.4 billion with the central bank in the form of derivative transactions including swaps and forwards, Moody’s analysts including Mik Kabeya and Lynn Merhi said in a report on Thursday. Because of the shortage of foreign currency, there’s a risk the central bank may temporarily prolong those contracts beyond their original maturity date, they said. “A material delay in repayment could well lead to the banks facing their own foreign-currency shortages and could constrain their ability to repay their own foreign-currency liabilities,” the analysts said. Nigeria’s central bank has had to ration dollars to reduce pressure on its reserves, which declined from a peak of $62 billion 15 years ago to about $36.6 billion in December as crude production in Africa’s biggest oil-producing nation dropped amid rampant theft, vandalism and falling investment. Oil exports account for about 80% of the country’s foreign-exchange income. Several commercial lenders, conscious of a potential repayment delay, in recent years reduced the duration of the derivative contracts and the size of the amounts placed with the central bank, cutting their tenor to 12 months from 24 months, Moody’s said. The central bank’s “strong track record” of repaying its foreign-exchange derivative obligations may moderate any roll-over risk, it said. “Most Nigerian banks have a successful track record of recalling these foreign-currency assets placed with the central bank,” Moody’s said. *Courtesy: Bloomberg   Citing what it said could be the impact of the lingering foreign exchange crisis in the country on Deposit Money Banks’ (DMBs) operational ability to meet their foreign currency obligations as well as their capitalisation and asset quality, one of the leading credit rating agencies, Moody's Investors Service, yesterday announced… In "News" The scarcity of dollars at the parallel market led to the naira dropping to N480 per dollar in Lagos yesterday from N475/$1 rate that the local currency traded at throughout last week. The foreign-currency shortage has worsened in recent weeks leading to lenders not honouring card payments, foreign investors having… In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should step up efforts to ease pressure on the foreign-exchange market to meet growing demand for hard currency in the country, the World Bank has said. World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, Shubham Chaudhuri, was reported by Bloomberg yesterday as saying that while the… In "News"