 Lawrence Olaoye, Abuja  Nigeria has been chosen by the Heads of State and Government of the Sahel Region Climate Commission (SRCC) to host the Secretariat of the Sahel Climate Fund. According to a release by a Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, Monday, a communiqué issued at the end of the Second Conference of Heads of State and Government of SRCC, held on the margins of 36th AU Summit in Ethiopia, also approved the appointment of Issifi Boureim of Niger Republic as the Executive Secretary of the Commission. Boureim, until his appointment, was the Coordinator of the Transitory Operational Framework of the Commission. His appointment was for a non-renewable period of three years, without the possibility of candidacy for future terms of office. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had declared Nigeria’s interest to host the headquarters of the Sahel Climate Fund and readiness to provide all necessary amenities. The “Sahel Climate Fund” is the financial body of the Sahel Region Climate Commission (SRCC). The body was one of the three climate Commissions for Africa created in Marrakech, Morocco in 2016 at the Summit of African Heads of State and Government, organised at the initiative of King of Morocco, on the side-lines of the 22nd Conference of the Parties (COP22) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.   President Muhammadu Buhari has pledge that Nigeria was ready to host the Secretariat of the Sahel Climate Fund including equipping and provision of accommodation to the management staff of the Fund. The President made this pledge Friday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia at 2bd Heads of State and Government of Sahel… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged that Nigeria was ready to host the Secretariat of the Sahel Climate Fund including equipping and provision of accommodation to the management staff of the Fund. The President made the pledge yesterday in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopia capital at 2nd Heads of State and Government… In "News" An African initiative launched by the African Development Bank Group (AfDB) to increase solar generation capacity to provide 250 million people with electricity access across Africa’s Sahel region for socio-economic development continues to attract financial support from around the world, according to a press release. The statement said that the… In "Business"