Nollywood actress Juliana Olayode, says, men who marry soon after ending long-term relationships are making the wrong decision. Olayode expressed her thoughts in a lengthy Instagram message, in which she expressed her frustration with how some people handle breakups and the pain it causes their loved ones. She further stated that ending a relationship without proper communication and leaving the partner in the dark is not good. The actress stated that she wants to use her voice to help a friend who is in a similar situation. “Ever gone through this b e f o r e ? How did you heal? Your response can help me figure out how to be there for my friend.I have heard stories of guys breaking up with people for no reason. They would say “ it’s not you it’s me, you’re too good for me, you deserve a better man”. Etc. Of course they deserve a better man!!! “This is more painful because it happened to some close to me, we can do better honestly. Don’t just break up with people, without proper communication, leaving them in the dark to figure out what went wrong. Anyway, I believe that this is for the greater good, of anyone who has gone through or is going through any form of heartbreak, it is not the end, it is not over, talk to God about it, and allow him to heal you and walk the journey with you, trust me, He’s got greater plans for you!” The actress once opened up about a painful past relationship. She admitted that after a few months of dating, her partner broke up with her for an unspecified reason  Deep Thots Films is out with a new blockbuster movie, ‘Stepping Into Maggie’s Shoes’ otherwise known as ‘SIMS’. Based on Opeyemi Akintunde’s book with the same title, the faithbased film is about love, betrayal and scandal. The movie premiered on Wednesday at VIVA Cinema, Jara Mall, Ikeja.   And… In "Body & Soul" The Ogun State government yesterday said it has conducted an entrance examination for over 200 applicants seeking employments into the state civil service.   The applicants included state counsels and others who applied for various positions through the state job portal. The examination was conducted by the Public Service Competitive… In "News" A civil society group, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center (WARDC), has released a survey it commissioned which reveals that women were majorly sidelined by the Federal Government and many states across the country in decision making and distribution of the COVID-19 palliatives. The ‘National Rapid Gender Assessment Report on… In "Metro & Crime"