Winners of the Climate Change Essay Competition organised for secondary schools in Lagos State have been rewarded by the organisers of the contest.  The competition was instituted and organised by NerdzFactory Foundation in collaboration with Access Corporation as part of its sustainability initiative and awareness programme. The schools were rewarded at the award presentation ceremony held at the state Ministry of Education Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. The winners are Obele Community Senior High School, which represented by Eda-Samuel, Asepeolorunim Olufemi; Lagos Progressive Senior Secondary School also represented by Iroham Victory Chinaza; while New Era Senior Girls School, was represented by Chukwu Chioma Rita. To reward the winners for the performance in the essay competition, they smiled home with N120,000; N100,000 and N50,000, respectively. Dignitaries at the event were the Senior Special Assistant to  the Governor on Education, Dr. Adetola Salau; Director Nerdz- Factory Foundation, Ade Olowojoba; Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Education, Mr Abayomi Abolaji; Director for Co-Curricular Activities District IV Science and Technology, Mrs Adenike Ajayi; principals and teachers from the schools. Underscoring the the importance of playing a role as a young person in the environment, Abolaji talked about the little habits such as proper disposing of waste in the surroundings, taking up bigger roles to combat climate change, which he said are role he is playing till date. On her part, Dr. Salau, reiterated the significance of the younger generation’s impact, saying she is impressed by how far the children have gone in participating in such a programme as this.  Meanwhile, the Director of NerdzFactory Foundation, Olowojoba stated that the programme has proven that every young children’s voice matters, and hence opportunities such this breeds incredible potential to do great things. Therefore, he also noted that  the youths should not allow their backgrounds to limit what they could do today and in the future in protecting and enhancing climate change and environmental sustainability. Olowojoba said: “Our goal for this programme is to provide opportunity for young people to learn about climate change and environmental sustainability, as well as to provide them with leadership opportunities to think creatively and address some of the difficulties we face as a people and society.”  … receives over N365,000 cash prize, computers, others   Winners of the 17th Mike Okonkwo Essay Competition for Secondary School Students stood tall last week before a distinguished audience, comprising top government officials, elder statesmen, captains of industry and members of the academia, as well as members of The Redeemed… In "Education" As part of activities marking this year’s Felabration, which commemorates the late Afrobeat King, Fela Anikulapo- Kuti, the Bigi carbonated soft drink brand produced by Rite Foods, on Wednesday, sponsored the schools debate associated with the one-week event. The competition, which had ten secondary schools participating, was held at Freedom… In "News" …as winners receive over N365,000 Again, the Bishop Mike Okonkwo Foundation has reiterated the determination to reawaken, develop and encourage the young ones’ interest in research work, reading extensively and writing constructively.   This, the Foundation said it has continued to do through the yearly Mike Okonkwo National Essay Competition… In "Education"