   Caleb Onwe, Abuja   President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed the Chairman, Nigeria Union Journalists (NUJ) FCT Chapter, Emmanuel Ogbeche, and other notable politicians and technocrats into various boards of the Federal Capital Territory. The NUJ Chairman was appointed as a member of the reconstituted Abuja Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) for a four-year tenure. “Abuja Broadcasting Corporation (ABC): The ABC Board is headed by Abubakar Jijiwa as Chairman. Other members are the Managing Director, Abuja Broadcasting Corporation, Chairman, NUJ, FCT, Ayodele Samuel, Salamatu Bello Jibrin, Mr. Joshua Tokura, Comrade Adamu Muhammed, Hon. Aminu Danmaliki, Ibrahim Modibbo Hamman and Bala Muhammad. Others are: Yusuf Nuhu, mni and Ibrahim B. Magaji”. FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello through an official statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Strategy, Sani Abubakar stated that the President also approved the renewal of the appointment of Chairmen and Members of the Boards of agencies of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA).    Caleb Onwe, Abuja     Three agencies in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have finally being given statutory boards, following the approval by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Boards that got the Presidential nod include FCT Universal Basic Education, FCT Area Council Service Commission and FCT Primary Health… In "News" The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), FCT Council, has called for the immediate release of Okechukwu Nnodim, a correspondent with the Punch Newspapers. Nnodim was allegedly kidnapped in his Abuja home by four men, who gained access to his residence by scaling his fence after firing several gunshots in the… In "News" The National President, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Chris Isiguzo, has said that nothing would stop its proposed triennial national delegates confer-ence and elections scheduled to hold in Umuahia, Abia State next month. Isiguzo, who disclosed this in Abuja yesterday after a courtesy visit to the Chairman, NUJ FCT chapter,… In "News"